HI, WELCOME
TO THE FEBRUARY 6TH TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR REGULAR MEETING
OF THE ANTARIA PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED AGENDA PROVIDED
MISKELLY WILL YOU PLEASE CALL
THE ROLL ONE WHOULEY HERE SIR
AMINALS HERE.
SARAH HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE LISA
DASH HERE IS THE DIRECTOR HERE
DOING WHETHER IT BE HERE THEN I
WAS NOTING THAT COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS WILL BE ABSENT THIS
EVENING AND I RECEIVED A NOTE
FROM COMMISSIONER WISCH THAT HE
IS ON HIS WAY.
YOU HAVE A QUORUM?
YES.
THAT WAS GIVING ME DIRECTIONS
TO CITY HALL WHERE I ALREADY AM
.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE MOVE
BY COMMISSIONER MILLS SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DESH ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY HI BY
ANY OPPOSED TO SEEING NONE
OF THIS IS APPROVED.
THE MOTION CARRIES ON.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES OF THE JANUARY 16
24 MOVE BY COMMISSIONER MILLS
AND SECONDED BY COUNCIL NO CASH
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES SEEING NONE ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE
SAY I.
I ONLY OPPOSED THE MOTION
CARRIES NEXT UP WELCOME.
NEXT UP OUR REPORTS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS COUNCIL REPORTS
COUNCIL NO THIS WE GOT TO SEE I
THINK I REPORTED ON OUR
INCREDIBLY INTERESTING MEETING
TWO WEEKS AGO AND LAST NIGHT
FROM YOUR PERSPECTIVE WAS NOT
AN INCREDIBLY INTERESTING
MEETING.
SO I HAVE NO TO REPORT.
I FOUND IT INTERESTING BUT
THANK YOU FOR THE MANAGER'S
REPORT, MISKELLY.
I WOULD LIKE TO KNOW TWO THINGS
.
FIRST, WE WILL HAVE A NEW
PLANNING COMMISSIONER JOINING
YOUR NEXT REGULAR SESSION.
DANIEL ADAMS WAS APPROVED BY
COUNCIL TO JOIN THE COMMISSION
.
WE'LL BE DOING SOME ONBOARDING
AND ORIENTATION AND OATH
OF OFFICE AND THEN YOU'LL HAVE
A NEW PERSON JOINING THE TABLE
AND WE'LL LET DANIEL DO AN
INTRODUCTION WHEN THEY JOIN
YOUR WORKING SESSION ON TWO
THIRTEEN YOU'LL HAVE A
PRESENTATION BY ZACH SMITH FROM
OUR OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY
AND INNOVATIONS TALKING ABOUT
SOME OF THE FINER POINTS
OF ELECTRIFYING OCCASION AND
WHAT OAC RECOMMENDS ARE
BENEFICIAL AND UNDERSTANDING
ELECTRIFICATION AND ZERO
STANDARDS WHY THEY PREFER AND
RECOMMEND CERTAIN THINGS.
HOPEFULLY THAT WILL BE
EDUCATIONAL AND AN OPPORTUNITY
TO ASK QUESTIONS.
SO IF YOU DO HAVE SOME THINGS
ON THAT TOPIC PLEASE COME COME
PREPARED AND ASK AWAY.
WE'RE CONFIRMING DETAILS RIGHT
NOW BUT IT IS VERY LIKELY THAT
YOU WILL ALSO HAVE A PROJECT
PREVIEW FOR ARBER S SEVEN SEVEN
SEVEN EISENHAUER THIS ISN'T
TYPICAL BECAUSE IT'S NOT A
PADDYS BUT IT IS SUCH A LARGE
PROJECT THAT WE THINK IT WILL
BENEFIT FROM SOME EARLY
FEEDBACK AND CONVERSATION WITH
THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
THE LAST THAT I CHECKED FROM
MANAGER LEINERT WE HAD UM OVER
TWO THOUSAND RESPONSES TO OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN COMMUNITY
SURVEY.
IF YOU HAVEN'T FIGURED THAT OUT
PLEASE LOOK FOR THAT ON OUR
WEBSITE AND PLEASE SPREAD THE
WORD IF
YOU NEED ANY MATERIALS.
WE HAVE A SMALL DIGITAL GRAPH
THAT YOU CAN SHARE.
PLEASE LET US KNOW.
BUT WE LOOK FORWARD TO GETTING
EVEN GREATER RESPONSE ON THAT.
PERFECT THANK YOU TO OTHER
COMMISSIONER OFFICERS OR
COMMITTED LIAISONS HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT SEEING NONE.
WE ARE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
RAISE HAND FEATURE IF VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND UNDER MEETING
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
WILL SELECT CALLERS WHO RAISED
THEIR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR
AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT
THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO
SPEAK AND WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AT ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND NOISES
SO THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION AT THIS TIME AND
GIVE JUST ONE MORE SECOND?
IS THERE ANYONE REMOTELY THAT
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION?
THERE IS ONE HAND RAISED PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN FIVE THREE
FOUR.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION FOR THREE
MINUTES
.
GOOD EVENING.
THIS IS TOM STOLLBERG GOING
FROM ONE TO ZERO TO TRIGGER
STREET LOWER LOWERTOWN ANN
ARBOR.
I'D LIKE TO TALK ABOUT THAT
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND THIS
RELATIONSHIP GOING OFF THE
MICHIGAN ZONING ENABLING ACT
ALLOW THE CITY TO HAVE A ZONING
ORDINANCE IF IT'S BASED ON A
PLAN THAT PLAN BEING THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
WE ARE IN THE PROCESS RIGHT NOW
OF EMBARKING ON REVISING OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
BUT WHEN WE LOOK AT ZONING THEY
SHOULD MEET A CURRENT
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND IF AN
APPLICATION DOESN'T WHAT WE
SHOULD BE LOOKING AT PROVIDING
A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TO SEE IF
THAT PARTICULAR AREA FOR
EXAMPLE OR COULD BE REVIVED IN
THE ENTIRE CITIES PLAN IF THE
VISION THAT THE COMMUNITY HAD
FOR THAT AREA HAS CHANGED OR
NOT AND IF IT HAS CHANGED, WHAT
IS THAT CHANGE WHEN WE LOOK TO
REZONING APPLICATION AND NOT
MEETING THE CURRENT
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AREA, THE
PROPER PROCEDURE TO FOLLOW IS
TO DENY THAT REZONING WAIT FOR
A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN REVISION
FOR THAT AREA OR FOR THE WHOLE
CITY AS THE CASE MAY BE.
AND THEN IF OUR VISION CHANGED
THAT WOULD CHANGE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND THEN THE
ZONING APPLICATION WOULD BE IN
THAT CASE IF THE ZONING
APPLICATION WITH THAT MEET THE
NEW COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THEN
PERHAPS THE APPROVAL.
I RAN INTO THIS MYSELF AS A
DEVELOPER WHERE I WAS IN
NORTHERN OAKLAND COUNTY WITH A
PLAN THAT A COMMUNITY LIKE AND
THE COUNTY BOARD THERE LIKE BUT
IT DIDN'T MEET THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SO THEY
DEVISED A PLAN FOR THAT AREA
NOT JUST FOR THE PROPERTY I WAS
BRINGING TO THEM AND I HAD TO
WAIT A LITTLE BIT OF TIME
BECAUSE I BELIEVE THAT WENT TO
MY LAND SELLER EXTENDED OPTION
AND THEN A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
FOR THE AREA.
MY PLAN WAS IN CONFORMANCE WITH
THAT NEW COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THE
VISION OF THE COMMUNITY AND MY
IT WAS APPROVED.
SO WE'VE SEEN THIS AND THINGS
LIKE I'VE WITHOUT SOME ROAD
WHERE IT DIDN'T MEET THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN FOR THE AREA
WHICH I BELIEVE IT'S BEEN
RENAMED FOR ME DIDN'T MEET THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THERE WAS
SEEN IT ON FORCE AND AGAIN
WE'RE SEEING IT TONIGHT ON
TRADITIONAL GO INTO DETAIL
BECAUSE THAT'S A PUBLIC HEARING
EARLIER.
BUT AGAIN, THE BASIC CONCEPT IS
IF THE ZONING REZONING
APPLICATION DOESN'T MEET THE
CURRENT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN,
ESPECIALLY WHEN IN PROVIDING
THAT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAT
VISION PROCESS IS WHERE THE
COMMUNITY SPEAKS AND THE VOICE
IS HEARD FROM ALL OF US FROM
NEW FROM THE CITIZENS.
IS THIS WHAT WE WANT FOR THAT
AREA AND IN THE CASE OF THE
APPLICATION FOR CHURCH, IT MAY
BE THE NEW COPPER MINE WE DON'T
KNOW YET.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER FOLKS
LOOKING TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION?
THERE ARE NO OTHER CALLERS AT
THIS TIME.
OK, THANK YOU.
WITH THAT I'LL CLOSE PUBLIC
HEARING.
WE'RE MOVING ON TO AGENDA
NUMBER SEVEN PUBLIC HEARINGS
SCHEDULED FOR THE NEXT BUSINESS
MEETING STEF KELLY AT THE
REGULAR SESSION OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ON FEBRUARY TWENTY
SECOND TWENTY TWENTY FOUR THERE
IS ONE PUBLIC HEARING SCHEDULED
WHICH IS THIRTY THREE EIGHTY
NIXON ROAD EVERY ZONING AND
SITE PLAN FOR L CREEK PHASE
TWO.
THIS IS A PROPOSAL TO REZONE
THE PROPERTY FROM R FOR A TO
OUR FOUR D ON THE CONDITION
THAT THE BUILDING HEIGHT IS
CAPPED AT SEVENTY FIVE FEET AND
TO BUILD ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY
ONE HOUSING UNIT IN ONE NINE
HUNDRED NINETY NINE THOUSAND
NINE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY FIVE
SQUARE FOOT BUILDING ON THE
SITE OF L CREEK PHASE ONE THANK
YOU.
WE HAVE NO UNFINISHED BUSINESS
SO WE ARE MOVING ON TO SECTION
NINE A REGULAR BUSINESS THIS IS
SEVEN ONE ONE CHURCH STREET
PUDI ZONING AND SITE PLAN.
I WILL INTRODUCE THE PETITION.
THIS IS A REQUEST OF REZONE A
ONE POINT ONE ACRE SITE FROM AN
R FOR C MULTIFAMILY DWELLING TO
PVD A PLAN UNIT DEVELOPMENT AND
ADOPT SUPPLEMENTARY RELATIONS
TO ALLOW DEVELOPMENT UP TO FOUR
HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET AND A SITE PLAN TO
CONSTRUCT A SEVENTEEN STORY
APARTMENT BUILDING WITH GROUND
FLOOR COMMERCIAL PRIMARY
PROPOSED PUBLIC BENEFITS OF THE
PEDIATRIC INCLUDE CONTRIBUTIONS
TO THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
ENHANCED SUSTAINABILITY.
THE BUILDING WOULD HAVE TWO
HUNDRED SEVENTY THREE PROPOSED
APARTMENTS WITH OVER ONE
THOUSAND BEDROOMS.
THIS WOULD INCLUDE ON SITE
VEHICLE AND PARKING, BICYCLE
PARKING AND STREETSCAPE
IMPROVEMENTS, AMENITIES WOULD
INCLUDE ON SITE.
MY APOLOGIES.
THE SITE INCLUDES SIX SEVEN 703
SEVEN OH SEVEN SEVEN OH NINE
THROUGH SEVEN THIRTEEN SEVEN
FIFTEEN AND SEVEN TWENTY ONE
CHURCH STREET AND TOIVO EIGHT
WELAND STREET.
THE ZONING DESIGNATION D ONE
DOWNTOWN CORE AND THE LIBERTY
DIVISION CHARACTER OVERLAY
DISTRICT AND SECONDARY STREET
FRONTAGE DESIGNATION.
THE TOTAL FLOOR AREA IS TWO
HUNDRED THIRTY THOUSAND ONE
HUNDRED TWENTY SIX SQUARE FEET
AND WE WILL MOVE ON TO
PETITIONER PRESENTATION.
MR. GOOD EVENING.
I HAVE HERE WITH ME TODAY
REPRESENTATIVES OF THE
OWNERSHIP GROUP, OTHER
ARCHITECTS, CIVIL ENGINEERS,
URBAN PLANNERS WHO ARE INVOLVED
IN THE PROJECT.
IT WILL SPEAK TO A SPECIFIC
AREA OF FOCUS OR CONCENTRATION
AS WE MOVE THROUGH OUR
PRESENTATION.
WE'RE HERE TONIGHT TO HELP DO
OUR PART TO HELP THE HOUSING
SHORTAGE IN THE CITY OF ARBOR
AND WE'RE HERE WITH A DESIGN
HAS BEEN REVISED SINCE LAST WE
PRESENTED AT OUR PROPERTY
CONFERENCE.
YOU MAY REMEMBER AT THAT TIME
IT WAS A MUCH LARGER BUILDING
NINETEEN STOREYS WITH MORE
UNITS.
SO WE HAVE TWEAKED IT AND
REVISED IT BASED ON SOME
COMMENTS WE RECEIVED AND I WILL
LET THE OTHERS TO SPEAK TO ALL
OF THE INDIVIDUAL CHANGES AND
ENHANCEMENTS TO THE PROPOSAL.
THANK YOU BRAD.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONERS.
WE WERE HERE LAST AND MARCH 23
AT THAT TIME AS STATED BY BRAD
WE HAD A 19 STORY BUILDING.
WE'RE NOW LOOKING AT A
SEVENTEEN STORY STEPPING DOWN
TO TWELVE AT THE SOUTH END TO
ASSIST WITH SOLAR GAIN AND
BATTING UNITS.
WE'RE AT THREE FIFTY NOW DOWN
TO 273 THE AUTO PARTS STORES
WE'RE AT A HUNDRED WE'RE NOW
DOWN TO FORTY EIGHT WITH TWO ON
SITE RESERVED RIDESHARES AND
TWO ON SITE RESERVE DELIVERY
STALL'S AND OUR BIKE PARKING
WAS AT THREE FIFTY HAS NOW BEEN
INCREASED TO FIVE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY FIVE STALLS.
I'M GOING TO TRY TO GO THROUGH
THESE FAST SO HAPPY TO COME
BACK WITH QUESTIONS LATER WE AH
MY NAME IS CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON
I'M REPRESENTING ELVIE
COLLECTIVE.
WE ARE BASED AND HEADQUARTERED
OUT OF AUSTIN.
OUR EXPERIENCE ON OUR TEAM IS
SEEN THESE TYPES
OF DEVELOPMENTS IN OVER 40
MAJOR MARKETS.
WE'RE CURRENTLY TRYING TO TAKE
THE APPROACH OF HAVING
THOUGHTFUL EYE FOR DESIGN
ESPECIALLY AT THE STREET LEVEL
AND THROUGHOUT THE ARCHITECTURE
COMPLETELY AS WELL AS HAVING
OUR OWN INTERNAL CURATION
DEPARTMENT WE LOOK TO BRING
PUBLIC REALM AND PEDESTRIAN
EXPERIENCE TO THE FOREFRONT
OF WHAT WE'RE DOING.
WE TRY TO TAKE A SPECIAL LOOK
AT CONTEXTUAL OBSERVANCE.
THESE ARE SOME OF OUR PROJECTS
AS YOU CAN TELL WE'RE
HIGHLIGHTING IN SOME OF THE
OVERALL DESIGN SOME OF THAT
PUBLIC REALM AND SOME OF OUR
GROUND FLOOR AMENITIES.
THESE PROJECTS SPECIFICALLY IN
AUSTIN PHENIX TEMPE, ATLANTA
HIGHLIGHTING SOME OF THE IN
HIGHLIGHTING SOME OF THE
OUTDOOR SPACES AND THE POROSITY
THAT WE LIKE TO BRING TO ALL
THESE PROJECTS.
OUR PROJECT TEAM WE'RE LOOKING
REALLY TO ENGAGE THOSE MINDS
THAT ARE LOCAL AND RELIED UPON
YOU'LL SEE MIDWESTERN JAY
BRADLEY MORE G WE ALSO REALLY,
REALLY RELY ON REOCCURRING
PARTNERSHIPS AS ARCHITECTURE
SITE DESIGN GROUP GREAT DESIGN
GROUP US EQUALLOGIC AND SOME
NEWER GROUPS TO US SPECIFICALLY
GEOTHERMAL INNOVATIONS VERDIE
SOLUTIONS BOTH IN GEOTHERMAL
AND SOLAR DESIGN.
I THINK YOU GUYS KNOW THIS WELL
BUT WE'LL TAKE A QUICK SECOND.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE ALSO
CAME BACK WITH WAS A REQUEST TO
SEE IF WE COULD PROVIDE THE
BUILDING GOING ALL THE WAY TO
THE HARD CORNER WHICH WE WERE
ABLE TO DO.
SO WE ARE NOW ADJACENT TO
HIGHRISES ON S CHURCH THAT ALSO
HAVE A SIMILAR USE.
YOU CAN SEE WALK SCORES HERE
OF NINETY FIVE TO NINETY NINE.
NINETY PERCENT OF THE PEAK
TRIPS FROM HERE ARE GOING TO BE
NON HOTTO GOING TO BE WALKING,
BIKING ET CETERA.
LOOKING AT THE CONTEXT FROM A
LITTLE DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE
YOU KNOW WE NOTE THE MACING
BEING BROKEN UP TO TRY TO
EMULATE SOME OF THE THINGS THAT
ARE AROUND BUT WE KNOW IT
SPECIFICALLY OVER I BELIEVE IT
WAS SEVEN HIGHRISES GREATER
THAN TEN STORIES AND A BLOCK
DISTANCE FROM OUR PARTICULAR
SITE.
LASTLY, JUST A FEW LOOKS FROM
DIFFERENT DIRECTIONS TO SHOW
YOU KIND OF WHAT BOTH PLAN
PROPOSED EXISTING ONE UNDER
CONSTRUCTION IN THE SOUTH FORCE
CORRIDOR.
AND SO AS WE TAKE A STEP BACK
FROM THE CONTEXT, I'D LIKE TO
INTRODUCE BRAD TO GO INTO A
LITTLE MORE OF THE ZONING
EVENING BRADSTREET OR I'M THE
PLANNER AND ZONER AND THE TEAM
SO JUST GIVE A QUICK RUNDOWN.
ONE OF THE QUESTIONS THAT COMES
UP IN THIS KIND OF PROJECT IS
WHY PD SO WE DID LOOK AT THE D
ONE THE D TO WE HAVE OUR FORESE
AND WITH THE HEIGHTS AND
DENSITY AND THE DESIGN
FLEXIBILE THAT WE NEED AND ALL
THE VARIOUS THIRTEEN MILLION
DOLLARS OF PUBLIC BENEFITS WHO
ARE PROVIDING WE REALLY NEED
THE PD TO GET THE PROJECT TO
WORK.
SO WE DID LOOK CAREFULLY AT THE
OTHER ZONING DISTRICTS.
WE ACTUALLY DID A MATRIX.
WE COMPARED EVERYTHING IN GREAT
DETAIL BUT THE PD IS IS THE WAY
TO GO WITH THIS PROJECT.
SO WHEN WE LOOKED AT THE PD
THEN WE LOOKED AT ALL THE
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PD.
YOU KNOW THE GENTLEMAN CALLER
ON THE MASTER PLAN A MASTER
PLAN IS NOT JUST THE FUTURE
LAND USE MAP BUT IT'S ALSO THE
POLICY AND SO FORTH.
WE ALSO LOOKED AT THE
SUSTAINABILITY POLICIES AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING POLICIES AND
OTHER POLICIES THAT HAVE BEEN
ADOPTED BY THE CITY OUTSIDE THE
CURRENT MASTER PLAN AND WE
THINK WE'RE CONSISTENT WITH
MANY OF THOSE GOALS AND
POLICIES IN THE EXISTING MASTER
PLAN BUT ALSO THOSE POLICIES.
WHY DO WE NEED A PUDI?
WE NEED THE FLEXIBILITY OF THE
DESIGN.
SO IF YOU LOOK AT JUST THE
HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS AND BACK
REQUIREMENTS AND SO FORTH, WE
ARE I THINK HAVE A MUCH MORE
VIABLE PROJECT IN TERMS
OF VARYING BUILDING HEIGHTS,
SETBACKS, LANDSCAPING WHEN
EDUARDO COMES UP LEADER WE'LL
SHOW SOME OF THE THE BENEFITS
IN TERMS OF WHAT PEOPLE WILL
SEE WHEN THEY'RE WALKING ALONG
THE STREET OR BIKE RIDING ALONG
THE STREET AND SO FORTH.
SO WE THINK THAT THERE'S A LOT
OF BENEFITS THERE.
WE HAVE A LOT OF INNOVATIVE
DESIGN IN TERMS OF PARKING.
SO WE'VE SEPARATED OUR
UNBUNDLED PARKING.
SO IF YOU ARE A TENANT YOU
DON'T AUTOMATICALLY GET A
PARKING SPACE, YOU HAVE TO PAY
FOR IT.
SO WITH THAT WE'VE REALLY
REDUCED THE AMOUNT OF PARKING
THAT YOU TYPICALLY WOULD WOULD
REQUIRE UNDER D ONE OR D TO OR
OTHERS ONLY 10 PERCENT OF OUR
TRIPS ARE PREDICTED TO BE BY
AUTO.
THE REST WILL BE WALKING,
BIKING, TRANSIT, MULTIPLE OTHER
FORMS OF MOBILITY.
I'LL TALK ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY
FEATURES AND ENERGY AND SO
FORTH BUT THE BUILDING IS BEING
DESIGNED TO REALLY CONTAIN
ENERGY USE SO NOT JUST TO BE
SUSTAINABLE BUT ALSO CONTAIN
THE ENERGY USE AND THEN WE'LL
TALK ABOUT SOME OF THE HOUSING
NEEDS.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS IN THE
PUDI ORDINANCE IS WHAT ARE WE
MEETING IN TERMS OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND MEETING THIS THE
CITY'S HOUSING NEEDS AND WE
THINK WE ARE DOING THAT AND IN
MULTIPLE WAYS.
SO THIS IS A LIST OF SOME
OF THE COMMUNITY BENEFITS THAT
WE'RE PROVIDING THAT THESE ARE
OVER AND ABOVE WHAT WOULD BE
REQUIRED IF WE DID D ONE OR TWO
OR OTHER ZONING ORDINANCES.
SO WE IT'S A VERY HIGHLY
EFFICIENT LAND USE.
WE'RE PROVIDING TWO HUNDRED AND
FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS TOWARD
PUBLIC RESTROOMS DOWNTOWN.
SO THAT'S COMMUNITY BENEFIT.
WE HAVE AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND
THAT CAN BE USED TO MATCH THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IF WE JUST
PROVIDED AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN
THE BUILDING VERSUS THE FUND
THAT CAN BE EXPANDED IN THE
FUTURE.
WE'VE GOT EIGHT WORK FORCE
UNITS WITHIN THE BUILDING.
WE HAVE CITY PARK CONTRIBUTIONS
OF ONE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS.
WE'RE LOOKING AT JUST UNDER
FIVE MILLION OF ANNUAL TAX BASE
AND AGAIN A LOT OF MULTIMODAL
BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT.
YOU WOULD NOT BE ABLE TO
REQUIRE IF YOU HAD A
TRADITIONAL ZONING ORDINANCE
AND THEN COMMUNITY BENEFITS.
SO IN ADDITION TO THOSE
BENEFITS AND THE PREVIOUS
SLIDES WE'VE GOT A LOT
OF SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES.
SO WE'RE LOOKING FOR LEED GOLD
CERTIFICATION.
IT'S PASSIVE HOUSE SO WE
INCORPORATE A LOT OF THOSE
PASSIVE PRINCIPLES.
WE'VE GOT A LOT OF RENEWABLE
ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES AND IF YOU
HAVE QUESTIONS WE'VE GOT
SPECIALISTS HERE THAT CAN
ANSWER THAT IN MORE DETAIL.
BUT WE'RE REALLY KIND OF PROUD
OF ALL THESE SUSTAINABILITY
FEATURES WE'VE DOUBLED THE
AMOUNT OF PARKING SPACES
REQUIRED IN OTHER PARKING
SPACES THAT CHRIS MENTIONED IN
THE BEGINNING WE GOT MORE THAN
TEN TIMES THE TYPICAL BIKE
PARKING WHICH I THINK IS A REAL
BENEFIT AND ALLOWS TO HAVE 90
PERCENT OF OUR TRIPS BY
NON-AUTOMOTIVE MEANS PRIMARILY
ELECTRIC BUILDING, GEOTHERMAL
AND SO FORTH.
SO I THINK THAT THESE ARE A LOT
OF THE SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES
THAT WE WANT TO COVER AND NOW
EDUARDO IS GOING TO GO THROUGH
SOME OF THE RENDERINGS AND SHOW
YOU SOME OF EXTERIOR THINGS
THAT WE'RE PROVIDING AS THE
BENEFIT WITH OUR ARCHITECTURE
BASED IN COLORADO JUST LIKE
ELBY OUR OFFICES ACROSS
ENCOMPASS CAMPUS THE COLORADO
THAT ARE SIMILAR TO WHAT I WANT
TO MAKE SURE THAT YOU REMEMBER
IS THAT THIS PROCESS THAT YOU
CREATED , THE DUE PROCESS
OF UNDERSTANDING A PROJECT IN
YOUR CITY HAS CAREFULLY
FOLLOWED WITH ADVICE AND
COMMENTS FROM ALL OF YOU AS
WELL AS A COMMUNITY AND A LOT
OF ADVICE FROM THE PLANNING
OFFICE AS WELL.
A VISION HAS BEEN TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE MEET TWO GOALS WHAT IS
YOUR VISION?
WHAT IS THE COMMUNITY?
AND DENSITY HAS BEEN ONE
OF THOSE DISCUSSIONS AS IT
RELATES MORE IMPORTANTLY ABOUT
HOW TO UTILIZE THE LAND IN THE
MOST INNOVATIVE FORM AS YOU
HEARD ABOUT THE IDEA
OF UNDERSTAND YOUR COURSE
DEVELOPMENT CODES, DESIGN
GUIDELINES AND SO FORTH, WE'RE
EVALUATING HOW TO BEST MEET
THAT FIGURE GROUND THAT COMES
TO THE EXPERIENCE THAT
PEDESTRIANS HAVE.
THE BUILDING AS A WHOLE HAS
BEEN BROKEN INTO PIECES SUCH
THAT IT'S LAYERED BOTH
HORIZONTALLY AND VERTICALLY IN
A WAY THAT PERCENT AND I'M
GOING TO WALK YOU THROUGH IT A
REALLY GOOD INTERACTION AT
GROUND LEVEL.
MOST IMPORTANTLY, THE BUILDING
FACADE IS MADE OF BRICK MOSTLY
BRICK THAT HAS A DATA WATER
LINE, IF YOU WILL, THAT RELATE
TO THE CONTEXT AS I SHOW YOU TO
OTHER BUILDINGS IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT THE KEY IS WHAT HAPPENS AT
THAT LEVEL ON WHICH WE ALL
EXPERIENCE BUILDINGS WHEN YOU
LOOK UP, YOU KNOW, COULD BE I'M
OK TO KEEP GOING IF WE CAN
EXTEND THE TIME.
HOW LONG DO YOU THINK YOU'LL
NEED?
IT'S GOING TO BE BRIEF.
OK, BUT I JUST READ JUST WHAT I
WANTED TO SHOW YOU IS THAT THE
TWO MAIN STREETS ARE AND CHURCH
ARE VERY IMPORTANT FOR THAT
INTERACTION OF THE COMMUNITY AS
A WHOLE AS WE ARE ON THE EDGE
OF THE CAMPUS AND CONNECTING
NEIGHBORHOODS TO DIFFERENT
SCALE AS YOU GO SOUTH AND EAST
.
BUT WHAT YOU'RE SEEING HERE IS
A CORNER OF THE BUILDING THAT
BECOMES VERY IMPORTANT FOR US
BECAUSE IT'S DEFINING TO DESIGN
GUIDELINES, OUTLINE THAT ICONIC
ELEMENT THAT DEFINES A GATEWAY
ALMOST TO THE COMMUNITY AS A
WHOLE WITH WITH THREE STORIES
OF A VERY POROUS FACADE THAT IS
VERY ACTIVE.
THERE'S NO RETAIL COMPONENT ON
THIS BUILDING BUT THE LOBBY
ITSELF IS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
WITH A CAFE AND IT'S ALMOST A
LIVING INSIDE THAT IS SHARED BY
EVERYBODY AND THAT'S WHY YOU'RE
STARTING TO SEE HERE AS WE GO
AROUND IT YOU REALIZE THAT NOT
ONLY THEN IS THE BUILDING
COMING OUT AND PUTTING ITSELF
INTO THE FRONT DOORS AND SO
FORTH.
BUT ALSO WE'RE CREATING LITTLE
POCKET PARKS THAT INCORPORATE
PUBLIC ART.
THE IDEA OF AS YOU MOVING FROM
NORTH ON THE WEST SIDE OF THE
BUILDING SOUTH THE SCALE OF THE
BUILDING CHANGES AS WE
EVENTUALLY GO FROM THAT RETAIL
COMPONENT THE CAFE, THE PORCH
OR ENTRY TO THE MAIN BUILDING
THIS POCKET PARK.
AND THEN THERE'S THE IDEA THAT
WE HAVE TOWNHOMES THAT RELATE
TO THE STREET ITSELF.
THE RESEARCH PARK PRETTY MUCH
LIKE EMU'S THAT YOU
CREATED HERE IN AN AREA THAT
BECOMING A SENSE
OF COMPREHENDING FOR US WHAT
THE CITY WANTS AND WAY YOU ARE
SEEING IS THAT THE PEDESTRIAN
IS ENGAGED AT ALL LEVELS AS IT
KIND OF FLOWS THROUGH WITH THIS
BUILDING THAT COMES IN AND OUT
BOTH HORIZONTALLY, VERTICALLY
ON THE NORTH SIDE TO WILLARD
THERE'S A ACCESS POINT TO THE
GARAGE AND THE TREATMENT
OF THOSE WALLS IS VERY
CAREFULLY CRAFTED WITH THE IDEA
OF ARCHITECTURE AS A MEDIUM TO
CREATE ARTISTIC WALLS, IF YOU
WILL, THAT EVENTUALLY CONNECT
YOU TO THE CORNER THAT IS VERY
POROUS WITH A LOT OF GLASS.
WE HAVE BEEN DOING A LOT
OF TESTING.
I MEAN WE TALKED ABOUT SOME
OF THE COURSE OF THE ABOUT 40
CONSULTANTS ON THIS PROJECT
THAT'S EVALUATING ALL KINDS
OF THINGS FROM THE FRAMEWORK
OF SUSTAINABILITY.
SO ECONOMIC FEASIBLE,
ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE AND
IS EQUITABLE TO EVERYBODY.
THE BUILDING NEEDED TO RESPOND
TO THE NEEDS OR THE FACT THAT
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO THE
ADDITIONS AS WELL AS TO THE
BUILDINGS THAT ARE AROUND US
MORE IMPORTANTLY THAN THE IDEA
THAT WE HAVE SOME PUBLIC REAL
PUBLIC FRONT RIGHT AWAY FRANCE.
BUT WE ALSO HAVE SOME NEIGHBORS
TO THE EAST.
THIS IS THE FACADE THAT IS
CREATING A BUFFER TO THE SCHOOL
TO THE EAST IN SUCH A WAY THAT
IT CREATES GREENWALL WITH THE
BUILDING, WITH A MURAL AND THEN
THIS ELEVATED GARDENS THAT ARE
NOT TO BE USED BUT JUST
CONTEMPLATIVE SUCH THAT THERE'S
NO CONNECTION BETWEEN THE
PEOPLE THAT LIVE IN THE
BUILDING AND THE CHILD
DEVELOPMENT SCHOOL IN THE
BOTTOM.
THE SAME THING ON THE SOUTH
SIDE THAT THE SERVICE DRIVE
THAT
BRINGS YOU THAT WE HOPE IS
VERY ACTIVE WILL LOVE TO HAVE
SOME EVENTS THAT HAVE BEEN ON
THAT DRIVE.
BUT IT ALSO THIS TRASH PICKUP
AND FIRE COMMANDS AND SO BUT
THE IDEA IS THAT THERE'S A NICE
GREEN BREAK BETWEEN US AND THE
NEIGHBORING HOME OF I DIDN'T GO
TOO FAST AND I DIDN'T TAKE TOO
MUCH OF YOUR TIME BUT WE HAVE
WE'RE PREPARED TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS THAT YOU MAY HAVE.
THANKS.
THANK THANK YOU.
WE APPRECIATE YOUR PRESENTATION
AND WE'LL MOVE ON TO STAFF
PRESENTATION.
MR. LEO, THANK VERY MUCH.
AS NOTED, THIS IS THE
SEVEN-ELEVEN CHURCH STREET PLAN
UNIT DEVELOPMENT TWO POSITIONS
.
ONE IS A ZONING DISTRICT AND
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
PETITION AND THE OTHER IS THE
CORRESPONDING SITE PLAN OVERALL
PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDS
DENIAL OF THE PROJECT.
WE FOUND THAT THE ZONING
PROPOSAL FAILS TO MEET THE
STANDARDS OF APPROVAL
SPECIFICALLY FOR BENEFICIAL
EFFECTS AND DOES NOT PROVIDE
BENEFITS WHICH COULD BE
ACHIEVED THROUGH OTHER ZONING
CLASSIFICATIONS AND INADEQUATE
JUSTIFICATION IS GIVEN FOR
CONSISTENCY WITH THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
THEREFORE WE RECOMMEND DENIAL
OF THE SITE PLAN BECAUSE IT
WOULD NOT FOLLOW THE ZONING.
I HAVE A WE HAVE PROVIDED A
FAIRLY LENGTHY STAFF REPORT
THAT I HOPE HAS DETAILED OUR
FINDINGS FAIRLY WELL.
I'LL GO OVER SOME SOME A LITTLE
BIT OF HIGHLIGHTS.
I'LL ASK YOU TO A LITTLE BIT
FLIP BETWEEN THE STAFF REPORT
AND THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS IN THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS IN SECTION THREE
FINDINGS THEY WERE WRITTEN FROM
YOUR POINT OF VIEW WITH THE
BENEFITS AS PROPOSED BY THE
APPLICANT TEAM.
THEY DO THE FIRST DRAFT OF IT.
WE HAVE INCLUDED THE BENEFITS
THAT SEEMED APPLICABLE
DEPENDING ON THE RESULTS
OF THIS MEETING, THOSE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS MAY
NEED TO CHANGE BASED ON THE
MINUTES OF THIS MEETING IF IT
GOES FORWARD TO CITY COUNCIL.
BUT I MENTIONED THE SUBMENTAL
REGULATIONS.
THEY HAVE THE FULL LIST
OF PROPOSED BENEFITS WITH A LOT
OF DETAILS RIGHT NOW.
I'LL JUST GIVE SOME HIGHLIGHTS
I GUESS.
LET ME START BY SAYING AGREEING
THE SITE IS A LITTLE BIT MORE
THAN AN ACRE.
IT'S CURRENTLY ZONED R FOR C
AND IT'S ABOUT A QUARTER OF A
BLOCK THE THE PROPOSED BENEFITS
THE APPLICANT HAS RESPONDED TO
THE PURPOSE STATEMENT OF PD IN
THE FIRST PLACE.
SOME OF THAT PUDI STATEMENT
DOES CALL OUT THAT THE DISTRICT
IS TO PERMIT FLEXIBILITY IN THE
REGULATION OF LAND USES AND
ENCOURAGE INNOVATIVE LAND USES
AND VARIETY OF DESIGNS AND SO
FORTH.
IT DOES SAY THAT IT SHALL NOT
BE ALLOWED WHERE IT IS SOUGHT
PRIMARILY TO AVOID IMPOSITION
OF STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
OF OTHER ZONING CLASSIFICATIONS
OR OTHER CITY REGULATIONS.
IT IS OUR OPINION THAT THE
PROJECT DOES NOT COMPELLINGLY
FULFILL THAT INTENT BUT THAT
INTENT IS NON-BINDING.
IT IS THE INTENT BUT WHERE
THERE IS SOME MORE MEAT IS IN
THE STANDARDS FOR REVIEW AND
THERE ARE EIGHT OF THEM AND I
WILL CALL OUT THREE OF THEM IN
PARTICULAR.
THE FIRST STANDARD IS THE PD
HAS A BENEFICIAL EFFECT FOR THE
CITY AND THERE ARE EXAMPLES
OF WHAT CONSTITUTES A
BENEFICIAL EFFECT.
THERE ARE SEVERAL BENEFITS
OF THE PROJECT, NO DOUBT ABOUT
THAT.
BUT WE THINK WHEN YOU LOOK AT
THE LIST OF THE BENEFITS AND
THEN THE LIST OF WHAT THEY ARE
ASKING FOR, THEY DON'T LINE UP
THE PROPOSED BENEFITS COULD BE
ACHIEVED AS WELL THROUGH
EXISTING ZONING EXISTING ZONING
DESIGNATIONS PERHAPS NOT TO THE
EXTENT REQUESTED BUT MAYBE
THAT'S ALSO THE POINT.
MAYBE THIS IS NOT THE SIZE
OF THE PROJECT DOES NOT FIT THE
CONTEXT OF THE SITE.
THE SECOND STANDARD FOR REVIEW
IS A BENEFICIAL EFFECT COULD
NOT BE ACHIEVED UNDER ANY OTHER
ZONING CLASSIFICATION AND IS
NOT REQUIRED TO BE PROVIDED BY
AN EXISTING STANDARD.
STAFF FOUND THAT THE BENEFICIAL
EFFECT OF INCREASING DENSITY
AND PROVIDING HOUSING COULD BE
ACHIEVED WITH OTHER ZONING
DESIGNATIONS AND FOR THE USES
STANDARD NUMBER FOR USE HAS
BEEN CONSISTENT WITH THE MASTER
PLAN AND POLICIES OR ADEQUATE
JUSTIFICATION HAS BEEN
PRESENTED AGAIN FULLY
ACKNOWLEDGING THAT IT IS OK TO
DEVIATE FROM THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN IF YOU PROVIDE A VERY
COMPELLING REASON YOU PRESENT A
GREAT CASE AND WE HAVE FOUND ON
THE WHOLE THAT THEY HAVE
PRESENTED THE CASE TO DEVIATE
FROM THE MASTER PLAN THAT OUR
FORESEE AS IS PROBABLY NOT THE
RIGHT CHOICE BUT WE DON'T THINK
SPECIFICALLY THE PROPOSED
SEVEN-ELEVEN PD IS THE IS THE
RIGHT ANSWER.
WE THINK IT LIES SOMEWHERE MORE
IN THE MIDDLE AND THEY HAVE
PROBABLY JUSTIFIED A D TO
ZONING AND SINCE WE DON'T SINCE
OUR FINDINGS DON'T SUPPORT
THEIR REQUEST, WE HAVE
RECOMMENDED DENIAL A LITTLE BIT
MORE SPECIFIC ABOUT EXACTLY HOW
WE FOUND IT DOESN'T MEET WE WE
COMPARED THE PROJECT TO FOR
OTHER ZONING DISTRICTS THE R
FOR MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING DC
ONE IS OUR CAMPUS BUSINESS
RESIDENTIAL D ONE DOWNTOWN CORE
AND D TO ALL FOUR OF THOSE
SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASE THE
DENSITY OVER THE CURRENT OUR
FORCES DESIGNATION AND SO THAT
ALONE DEMONSTRATES THE
BENEFICIAL EFFECT COULD BE
ACHIEVED UNDER ANOTHER ZONING
DESIGNATION REGARDING THE
BENEFICIAL EFFECTS IN GENERAL
AS I WILL SAY IT AGAIN BECAUSE
THEY HAVE PROVIDED THIS PROJECT
DOES HAVE A LOT OF GREAT THINGS
ABOUT IT BUT ULTIMATELY IT
SEEKS TEN TIMES THE DWELLING
UNIT DENSITY AS PERMITTED IN
THE UNDERLYING ZONING
DESIGNATION AND IF WE GO BY
PAST PRESIDENT OF OUR
ADMITTEDLY NOW REPEALED PREMIUM
STANDARDS BUT WE BELIEVE THAT
THOSE STANDARDS SPEAK TO SOME
OF THE VALUES OF OUR COMMUNITY
AND WITH A 15 PERCENT
OF PROVIDING 15 I SHOULD SAY
THIS PROVIDING 20 PERCENT
OF THE PROPOSED FOURTH FLOOR
AREA AS AFFORDABLE HOUSING WE
EITHER ARE A LITTLE BIT MORE
THAN DOUBLED OR A LITTLE BIT
LESS THAN DOUBLED THE DENSITY
AND AGAIN THEY'RE PROPOSING TEN
TIMES THE UNDERLYING DENSITY
WHEN PROJECTS USE THE LEAD GOLD
PREMIUM THEY GOT ALSO AROUND
DOUBLE THE NORMAL DENSITY AND
AND THIS IS ABOUT TEN TIMES AS
MUCH.
AND EVEN IF YOU ADDED THOSE
TOGETHER THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
PLUS THE LEAD WHICH WE DIDN'T
USED TO SORT OF WE HAD A CAP ON
IT BUT EVEN IF YOU DOUBLE WE
FEEL THAT THE ASKE IS FAR
GREATER THAN THE BENEFITS
PROPOSED AND THEN REGARDING
ADEQUATE JUSTIFICATION FOR
DEPARTURES FROM THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN I FEEL I'M
REPEATING BUT I FEEL IT'S WORTH
AN IMPORTANT POINT.
WE UNDERSTAND THAT SOME ASPECTS
ARE MORE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OR
OUT OF DATE.
HENCE WE ARE UNDERTAKING A
REVIEW.
BUT THE LAND USE ELEMENT IS NOT
THE ONLY AND IS NOT THE ONLY
PART OF IT.
WE ARE AS STAFF FULLY COMMITTED
TO ACHIEVING THE OVERARCHING
GOALS THAT ARE WELL ARTICULATED
ACROSS THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
ELEMENTS SUCH AS INCREASING
DENSITY TO EXPAND OUR HOUSING
SUPPLY IN GENERAL AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN
PARTICULAR REALIZING MORE
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENTS AND WE
WELCOME PROJECTS THAT INCREASE
DENSITY BUT ALONG WITH THOSE
OVERARCHING GOALS ARE
FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES
EXPRESSED IN THOSE ELEMENTS
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN FOR
SENSITIVITY TO CONTEXT AND
RESPECTING AND PRESERVING
NEIGHBORHOODS.
UPON FULL CONSIDERATION OF THIS
PROJECT WE FIND THAT THE
DETAILS FAIL TO SUPPORT THE
EXTENT, SCOPE AND SCALE OF THE
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
AGAIN, THEY HAVE PROVIDED
ADEQUATE JUSTIFICATION TO
INCREASE THE DENSITY AND
DEVIATE FROM THE MASTER PLAN
BUT NOT AS MUCH AS THEY REQUEST
.
STAFF REPORT ALSO GOES INTO
JUST SOME BASIC DETAILS ABOUT
THE SITE PLAN THAT CORRESPONDS
TO THE PROPOSED REZONING.
I FEEL THAT THEIR PRESENTATION
DID A GREAT JOB, A BETTER JOB
THAN I CAN SUMMARIZE.
I WILL JUST POINT OUT THAT
DESPITE OUR RECOMMENDATION
SHOULD THE PLANNING COMMISSION
MOVE FORWARD WITH THIS OR A
VERSION OF IT, TWO ITEMS IN
PARTICULAR SHOULD PROBABLY
WARRANT SOME DISCUSSION.
FIRST IS THE REGARDING THE
WORKFORCE HOUSING UNITS WE ARE
NOT IN A GREAT THE CITY IS NOT
IN A GREAT SPOT TO MONITOR
THOSE HOUSING UNITS.
IT'S NOT PART OF OUR NORMAL
PROCEDURES.
IT WOULD BE I CAN'T GUARANTEE
THAT THAT WOULD BE A BENEFIT IN
PERPETUITY.
SO WE MIGHT WANT TO YOU MIGHT
WANT TO CONSIDER SWITCHING THEM
TO BE JUST MORE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING UNITS OR A WORKFORCE
HOW TO USE WITH THE
UNDERSTANDING THAT IT WOULD BE
HARD FOR US TO MONITOR.
ANOTHER IS THE DOWNTOWN PUBLIC
RESTROOM PROJECT.
IT'S A PILOT PROJECT IT'S
SUPPOSED TO RUN FOR A LIMITED
PERIOD.
ITS FUTURE IS ALSO NOT CERTAIN
A VERY CERTAIN BENEFIT WOULD BE
FOR THIS PROJECT TO INCLUDE
ONSITE PUBLIC RESTROOMS.
THAT IS NOT PART OF THE
PROPOSAL WE JUST MERELY POINT
THAT OUT AS I MENTIONED A
LITTLE BIT DEPENDING ON THE
FINDINGS.
MAYBE WE NEED TO REVISE A
COUPLE OF THE REGULATIONS AFTER
TONIGHT AND I WILL SAY THE SITE
PLAN IS STILL TECHNICALLY UNDER
REVIEW.
WE ARE WORKING ON A FOURTH
REVISION.
WE'RE DOWN TO VERY TECHNICAL
DETAILS SHOULD DO YOU FIND THE
ZONING TO BE ACCEPTABLE AND
RECOMMEND APPROVAL OF IT?
YOU CAN BE CONFIDENT THEN
OF FORWARDING THE SITE PLAN
BECAUSE IT DOES MATCH THE
PROPOSED ZONING, NOT THE
UNDERLYING THE PROPOSAL.
I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS.
I'LL WRAP IT UP BY JUST
POINTING OUT IN THE PACKET YOU
HAVE THE DRAFT SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS AND A DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT.
YOU ALSO HAVE SOME OF THE
ORIGINAL DOCUMENTS FROM THE
APPLICANT TEAM.
THEY'RE ALSO AVAILABLE ON THE
FILE ALONG WITH MORE THAN JUST
THOSE.
BUT WE'VE PROVIDED A FEW IN THE
PACKET
.
THANK YOU.
AND AS A POINT OF CLARIFICATION
AS I WAS READING IN INTRODUCING
A PETITION I DID AND SOLICITORS
DAEWON BUT CLARIFICATION
PURPOSES IS OUR FORESE AND THIS
IS NOT A LIBERTY DIVISION OVER
CHARACTER OVERLAYED DISTRICT
THERE JUST AS A POINT
OF CLARIFICATION.
SO YOU CAN'T THAT PORTION
OF THANK YOU MR. LEO.
WE ARE MOVING ON TO PUBLIC
HEARING THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS ITEM.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO SPEAK TO THE
COMMISSION AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR ON IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
RACE HAND FEATURE IF VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TWO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING ID
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
SELECT HAVE RAISE THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND NOISES
SO THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD TO
PARTICIPATE IN.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
PETITION COMMISSION AT THIS
TIME?
OK HELLO.
OH YEAH I'M MARK GERSTEIN.
I LIVE AT THIRTEEN TWENTY ONE
FOREST COURT WHERE I'VE LIVED
FOR FORTY YEARS VEHEMENTLY
OPPOSED TO THE APPLICATION FOR
PUDI PROJECT FOR THIS SITE AT
SEVEN-ELEVEN CHURCH STREET I
STRONGLY SUPPORT THE ANALYSIS
OF ALEXIS DE LEO AND THE
PLANNING DEPARTMENT THAT
STRONGLY RECOMMENDS DENIAL.
YOU HAVE PROFESSIONAL PLANNING
STAFF WITH EXPERTIZE AND
EXPERIENCE YOU SHOULD LISTEN TO
THEM FOR A CHANGE.
THE PROPOSED SEVENTEEN STOREY
LUXURY STUDENT APARTMENT
BUILDING IS TOTALLY OUT
OF CHARACTER WITH THE
SURROUNDING FORESE NEIGHBORHOOD
AS YOU SAW.
AS YOU CAN SEE IT'S ENORMOUSLY
LARGE.
IT IS CERTAINLY LARGER AND YOU
KNOW THE UNIVERSITY BUILDING
ACROSS THE STREET FROM IT IT
DISREGARDS AND JUST RESPECTS
THE EXISTING BUILDINGS BETWEEN
WILLARD AND HILL STREET, AN
ATTRACTIVE AREA OF WELL
MAINTAINED RESIDENCES,
FRATERNITY AND SORORITY HOUSES
,AMPLE GREENERY WITH LARGE
OLDER TREES AND A MIX OF LONG
TERM RESIDENTS LIKE US AND
STUDENT RENTERS.
THE PROPOSAL IGNORES THE
RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS ON FOREST
COURT AND TAKES NO ACCOUNT
OF THE PLAY YARDS AT THE
TOWNSLEY CHILDREN'S HOUSE THAT
ABUTS THE SITE.
AND AGAIN I THINK AS THE
UNIVERSITY HAS LET YOU KNOW, IT
WILL HAVE A YOU KNOW, AN
EGREGIOUS A TERRIBLE IMPACT,
YOU KNOW, ON THE CHILDREN
THERE.
THE PROPOSAL IS IN TOTAL
VIOLATION OF ZONING CREATED BY
THE CITY IN THE RECENT PAST
ESTABLISHING D1 AND D2 ZONES AS
ALEXIS LEAO HAS POINTED OUT
WITH STEP DOWNS TO PRESERVE THE
INTEGRITY OF THE SURROUNDING
OUR FORCES ZONES.
UNCHURCHED D1 ZONING STOPS AT
WILLARD.
THIS PROPOSAL IS AN ATTEMPT TO
USE THE PEACE PROCESS TO
TOTALLY CIRCUMVENT AND BUST
OPEN THE CURRENT ZONING IF THIS
PROJECT IS ALLOWED TO GO
FORWARD IT WILL DESTROY THE
ZONING REDCOAT, REGULATE
NEGOTIATED, VOTED ON AND
ESTABLISHED BY CITY COUNCIL AND
HOPE AND OPEN THE WHOLE AREA TO
OPPORTUNISTIC DEVELOPMENT.
THE CITY COUNCIL ON THIS IS NOT
CITY PLANNING SHOULD BE DONE
NOR SHOULD THIS CITY REMAKE ITS
PREVIOUS APPROVED PLANNING
DOCUMENTS THROUGH SUCH
SINGLE-SITE SPOTS THERE IS NO
DISCERNIBLE PUBLIC BENEFIT AND
THIS BUJU PROPOSAL I'M WAITING
FOR THE PUBLIC RESTROOMS THAT
THEY'LL CERTAINLY OFFER ON THE
GROUND FLOOR ANY HOUSING CRISIS
IN ANN ARBOR.
IT WILL NOT IN ANY WAY BE
ADDRESSED BY THIS PROPOSAL
WHICH WILL SOLELY BE MARKETED
FOR HIGH RENT STUDENT HOUSING.
I STRONGLY URGE YOU TO REJECT
THIS PUDI PROPOSAL AS YOUR
PLANNING DEPARTMENT RECOMMENDS
FOR SUCH A LARGE OUT OF SCALE
AND OUT OF CHARACTER BUILDING
THAT IS IN TOTAL VIOLATION
OF THE ZONING AND WILL OPEN THE
WAY FOR OTHER SUCH PUDI
APPLICATIONS IN THE AFTER C
AREA BETWEEN WILLERTON AND
BEYOND.
I'M SORRY TO INTERRUPT YOUR
TIME.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT I
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION AT THIS TIME
.
HELLO AND WELCOME HOME.
MY NAME IS ELENA LIN I LIVE AT
THIRTEEN TWENTY ONE FOREST
COURT LESS THAN A FIVE MINUTE
WALK TO THE EAST OF EAST CHURCH
STREET PROPERTIES.
THE DEVELOPER'S PROPOSAL FOR A
VERY TALL STUDENT HIGH RISE IS
OUT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE
ZONING OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE SIZE AND SCALE OF THE
SURROUNDING BUILDINGS AND THE
WELL BEING OF NEARBY RESIDENTS
.
THE NEIGHBORHOOD BETWEEN HILL
STREET AND SOUTH UNIVERSITY IS
AN ATTRACTIVE AND TRANQUIL AREA
WITH MOAT WELL MAINTAINED
HOUSES, AMPLE GREENERY AND A
HARMONIOUS MIX OF LONG TERM
RESIDENCE AND SHORT TERM
STUDENT RENTERS.
SEVERAL GUIDEBOOKS TO AND I
HAVE CALLED IT A HIDDEN GEM.
IT IS THE KIND OF URBAN
LANDSCAPE THAT SHOULD BE
PROTECTED, CELEBRATED AND
REPLICATED IN OUR DESIRE TO
MAKE AND I BEAR A LIVABLE CITY.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION MADE AN
ERROR WHEN LAST YEAR WHEN IT
APPROVED THE OVERSIZE NEW
STUDENT HIGH RISE GOING UP AT
SEVEN TWENTY ONE S FIRST ONE
MISTAKE DOES NOT JUSTIFY
ANOTHER.
ZONING EXISTS FOR A PURPOSE.
PODS ARE MEANT TO HELP DEVELOP
AN OTHERWISE UNBUILDABLE SITE.
THEY ARE EXPRESSLY NOT INTENDED
TO BE A WAY TO GET AROUND
WHATEVER ZONING REGULATION THE
DEVELOPER DOES NOT LIKE.
WE WILL RECEIVE NO BENEFITS IF
THIS PROJECT IS BUILT IT WILL
LIKELY CREATE MARKET FORCING US
TO USE MORE AIR CONDITIONING IN
THE SUMMER IT WILL BE NO END
OF AN AGE ENERGY EFFICIENT AND
OTHER STUDENT HIGH RISES ALONG
S UNIVERSITY.
IT MAY LIMIT OUR SUNLIGHT AND
THE HELP OF OUR HERITAGE TREES
.
THE PROJECT AS IT IS PROPOSED
WOULD BE DISTURBINGLY NEGLIGENT
OF THE YOUNG CHILDREN AT U
OF M.
S CHILDREN'S HOUSE TANSLEY
CHILDREN'S HOUSE THEY WOULD NOT
BE ABLE TO USE THEIR PLAY YARD
A NECESSARY PART OF THEIR EARLY
CHILDHOOD EDUCATION.
I ALSO FEEL THAT THIS PROJECT
WILL SEND A VENOMOUS PRECEDENT
THE AIR FORCE SEE HOUSES THAT
SAT ON THIS BLOCK WERE
DEMOLISHED WITH THE
UNDERSTANDING THAT A NEW AIR
FORCE TOWNHOUSE PROJECT WOULD
REPLACE THEM NOW WITH A LARGE
EMPTY AREA SOMETHING MUST BE
DONE.
BUT THE NEW PROJECT NEEDS TO
FOLLOW CITIZEN REQUIREMENTS
OF SCALE AND CHARACTER
OTHERWISE ANY DEVELOPER COULD
PROMOTE A FALSE REPLACEMENT AND
THEN SWITCH PLANS LATER ON.
WE DESERVE BETTER THAN THAT.
I HAVE A COPY OF MY THANK YOU.
WELCOME.
HELLO.
HELLO MY NAME IS DENHA STICE
AND I'VE BEEN IN BUSINESS
CHURCH STREET FOR THIRTY EIGHT
YEARS BORN AND RAISED IN ARBER
I WAS I'VE BEEN HERE SINCE THE
BEGINNING WHEN NONE OF THIS WAS
OWNED FOR THIS TYPE OF THING
I'M HERE TO SUPPORT IT.
THE HIGH RISES A STUDENT HIGH
RISES THAT HAVE BEEN BUILT OVER
THE YEARS HAVE DONE NOTHING BUT
BENEFIT THE BUSINESSES, CLEAN
UP THE AREA AND ALSO MADE THE
AREA SAFER.
I THINK IT'S A GREAT YOU KNOW
EVENTUALLY THAT ALL THESE
THINGS WILL BE THE ZONING WILL
BE CHANGED.
THERE'S MORE COMING.
I ALSO OWN A PROPERTY 723
CHURCH WHICH IS ADJOINING THE
BUILDING, THE PROPOSED BUILDING
AND TWELVE OR SEVEN WETHERED
RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET.
I THINK THIS IS IN CHARACTER
WITH THE AREA AND I SUPPORT IT.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT I
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION.
I JUST WANTED TO ADDRESS A
COUPLE OF POINTS.
ONE IS I WORKFORCE HOUSING I
THINK THIS IS PUBLIC COMMENT SO
WE WILL HAVE A DISCUSSION WHICH
IS IS IT TECHNICALLY OK?
OH OK I GUESS YEAH SURE.
HELLO WELCOME.
YES.
ALL RIGHT.
AND JUST BEFORE THE FIRST WORK
FORCE UNITS WE HAVE BEEN
TALKING WITH THE COUNTY HOUSING
OFFICE AS YOU MAY RECALL IN THE
CITY FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO ARE
HERE, THE THIRTEEN EAST
WASHINGTON SIX ONE SIX YEAR
WASHINGTON PROJECT, WE HAVE
SOME PORTABLE UNITS AND THAT
WAS THE COUNTY THAT'S GOING TO
BE VETTING THE CANDIDATES FOR
THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS IN
A HIGH RISE OVER THERE.
WE'VE BEEN TALKING WITH THEM
ABOUT THEM DOING THE SAME KIND
OF VETTING FOR THE AFFORDABLE
UNITS ON THIS SITE SO THAT
VETTING WOULDN'T BE A BURDEN.
THE CITY WOULD BE HAPPENING
THROUGH THE COUNTY HOUSING
OFFICE.
AND ALSO I'D LIKE TO SPEAK
ABOUT THE BENEFITS OF BEAUTIES
.
THIS ONE COMPARED TO THE PUDI
THAT WAS APPROVED UNFORCED
SINCE THAT WAS BROUGHT UP
CONTRIBUTION TO THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND IS GOING TO BE AT
LEAST 35 PERCENT HIGHER THAN
THAT PROJECT.
THAT PROJECT WAS DESIGNED TO
LEAD SILVER.
THIS WILL BE DESIGNED GOLD AND
THAT PROJECT HAS AN URBAN FORCE
NEXT TO IT THAT WE HAD TO
DESIGN AROUND AND PROTECT THAT
FOR WE DON'T HAVE THAT URBAN
FOREST HERE TO DESIGN AROUND.
WE HAVE
DESIGNED OUR BUILDING
TO PERMIT MORE ENGAGEMENT WITH
THE PUBLIC REALM THAT WE COULD
AT 721 FOREST SERVICE OF THOSE
COMPARISONS.
YES.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT I WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE COMMISSION
SEE NO ONE DO WE HAVE REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS?
I'D LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION WE DO.
MR. CHAIR FIRST CALLERS.
ADAM, JUST GIVE IT YOUR
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
HI.
THIS IS AND I'M JUST CALLING
FROM LAS VEGAS DRIVING THE
FOURTH WARD.
I SUPPORT THIS DEVELOPMENT AND
DISAGREE WITH STAFF
RECOMMENDATION NINE THE
PROPOSAL THIS SITE IS
SURROUNDED BY OTHER BUILDINGS
OF COMPARABLE DENSITY IN AN
AREA DOMINATED BY DORMITORY AS
ANOTHER STUDENT HOUSING STUDENT
HANGOUTS AND ACADEMIC
BUILDINGS.
THIS DENSITY IS ABSOLUTELY
APPROPRIATE FOR THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND HAS A NUMBER
OF BENEFITS FOR OUR CITY.
WE ARE HOUSING PRICES WITH HIGH
DEMAND FOR HOUSING NOT ENOUGH
SUPPLY.
THIS WILL ADD A SIGNIFICANT
NUMBER OF UNITS TO OUR LOCAL
HOUSING SUPPLY.
THAT IN ITSELF IS A BENEFIT TO
OUR CITY.
THE LOCATION IS EASILY WALKABLE
THE CAMPUS AND THE LOCAL
BUSINESSES THAT ARE FREQUENTED
BY STUDENTS.
IT'S HALF A BLOCK FROM RENTS
AND BASICALLY ACROSS FROM PIZZA
HOUSE AFTER ALL IT'S RIGHT IN
THE THICK OF THINGS IN TERMS
OF STUDENT LIVING SO RESIDENTS
ARE LIKELY TO DRIVE LUNCH.
THIS IS GREAT BECAUSE WE ARE IN
A CLIMATE CRISIS AND AS SUCH
ARE TRYING TO CUT VEHICLE MILES
TRAVELED IN THAT I LOVE THEIR
UNBUNDLING PARKING.
I HOPE THAT MORE DEVELOPERS
FOLLOW SUIT GETTING THESE
RESIDENTS CLOSE TO THEIR
DESTINATIONS AND OUT OF THEIR
CARS HELPS OUR YANKEES GOALS AS
WELL AS OUR ZERO GOALS.
FURTHERMORE, THIS BUILDING
WOULD PAY SIX POINT THREE
MILLION DOLLARS INTO AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND WHICH JENNIFER
BALL AND THE HOUSING COMMISSION
CAN LEVERAGE TO MORE WONDERFUL
DEVELOPMENTS LIKE ONE TWENTY
ONE CATHERINE THE OLD WHY NOT A
WELLINGHAM AND OTHER PROJECTS
COMING DOWN THE PIKE THERE ARE
ALSO CONTRIBUTED FUNDS TO OTHER
CITY BENEFITS SUCH AS HARTFORD
PUBLIC RESTROOMS.
THESE BENEFITS TO THE CITY
OF SUBSTANTIAL ME HENCE MY
DISAGREEMENT WITH THE
ASSESSMENT OF STAFF PLEASE
APPROVE THIS PROJECT TONIGHT.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE OTHER REMOTE CALLERS
?
WE DO JUST ONE MOMENT STAFFING
OUR NEXT CALLER IS ERIC.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION OR THE
CITY HALL FROM THE FIFTH FLOOR
IN SUPPORT THE PREVIOUS
PROPOSAL FOR SEVERAL LOCAL
CHURCH FINDING STAFF
RECOMMENDATIONS INTO THE
POLLING STATION IN CHARGE
OF THE POLICY THE I INTRODUCE
YOU TO SOME ON OUR HOUSING
UNITS.
THIS PROJECT IS A DIRECT
BENEFIT TO THE QUESTIONS
SURROUNDING THE INFORMATION
DENSITY RESPONSE BY ISSUE
SOCIAL AND EDUCATIONAL
ADVANTAGES, MORE PROXIMITY TO
UNIVERSITY AND VARIOUS LOCAL
BUSINESSES.
WHISKY'S USE OF SERVICES FROM
THE LIFE JUST LIKE WE DO.
THAT'S WHY APPLYING FOR OUR
EFFORTS TO ADDRESS THE CLIMATE
CRISIS BY ANY MEANS REDUCE THE
AMOUNT OF TO ENCOURAGE TO WALK
RATHER THAN DRIVE TO POST
DISABILITY MONEY FOR HOUSING IS
A HUGE AND UNDENIABLE NETWORK
SUCCESS FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
THAT IS CONSIDERED RELATED TO
THE EXTENDED DISAGREEMENT IN
THE RECOMMENDATION TO DENY THE
PROJECT THE ARGUMENT BECAUSE
THERE IS NO NEED TO ALLOW FOR
DENSITY IN OUR POLICY YOU CAN
BE REPEATEDLY DENIED SPEAKING
AS COMPELLING AGAINST THE
MULTIPLE CRISES WE FACE FROM
HOUSING TO CLIMATE DEFINED FOR
THIS LEVEL OF INFLEXIBILITY IS
DECADES PAST THE SERVICE.
WE DON'T SERVE OUR CLIENTS.
WE WOULD BE ROSES IN SHORT
INSTEAD FORCED TO BECOME
PACIFIC LEADERS CANNOT YOU KNOW
THAT PERFECT BE THE ENEMY
OF WORK AND IN THIS CASE THE
PERFECT BE THE ENEMY
OF APPEASING THE DEVIL IN THE
DETAILS BUT US SUPPORT THE
TROOPS I REALLY WITH THIS
PROJECT AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.
THANK YOU.
OTHER CALLERS THERE ARE FOUR
ADDITIONAL HANDS RAISED
MICHELLE CUZ YOU PERMISSION TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
NEXT.
OH ALSO PETITIONER'S
PRESENTATIONS NOW THAT THIS IS
REALLY GOOD I'M JUST CONCERNED
IT'S GOING TO BE TOO EXPENSIVE
.
OH THEY'RE PAYING US BECAUSE IT
BRINGS SO MANY BENEFITS TO THE
CITY EVEN BEYOND THE BENEFITS
EVEN BEFORE YOU GET TO THE
BENEFITS THAT THEY ARE
PROVIDING AS BENEFITS.
SO IT'S LIKE PEOPLE GETTING
BENEFITS IN ORDER TO TO DO THIS
DAMAGE TO US.
BUT THE DAMAGES THAT THEY'RE
GOING TO HAVE IN PRICES FOR US
SAY I DON'T SEE WHY WE HAVE TO
,YOU KNOW, DEMAND MORE FROM
THEM WHEN THEY'RE DOING EXACTLY
WHAT WE NEED TO BE DOING A SITE
IT'S DOWNTOWN.
IT'S IN THE CITY DOWNTOWN.
IT'S A STUDENT NAMED AND
THEY'RE GOING TO PUT SOME
STUDENT HOUSING IN THERE AND
THAT'S PERFECT UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN AND KEEPS ON
ENROLLING MORE STUDENTS AND
WE'VE GOT SOME MORE AND THE
STUDENTS ARE THE PEOPLE THEIR
FUTURE.
CHARLES, PEOPLE WHO CREATE
APPROPRIATE CULTURE, VIBRANCY
THAT WE'RE SO PROUD OF HERE AND
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MORE FOR MORE
SUCH PEOPLE TO BECOME TOWNS ONE
DAY AND TO BE A PART OF OUR
TOWN IN OUR CULTURE NOW.
SO I THINK THAT WE SHOULD TREAT
THIS LIKE IT'S SOMETHING LIKE
WE'RE DOING WHAT WE HAVE TO DO.
IT'S A BIG FAVOR TO MAKE UP FOR
THE THINGS THAT THEY'RE DOING
THIS BECAUSE THEY'RE DOING US A
GREAT SERVICE JUST BY BUILDING
THE HOUSING AND ON TOP OF THAT
THEY'RE GIVING US AS MUCH MONEY
INTO AFFORDABLE HOUSING FOR AS
LONG AS THE MORTGAGE GUY IN AN
ENTIRE YEAR.
SO LET'S LET'S MAKE THIS ABOUT
THANK YOU SOME ADDITIONAL HANDS
RAISED.
THERE ARE CURRENTLY FIVE HANDS
MEREDITH, CAN YOU HAVE A
RAISED.
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
MEREDITH, CAN YOU HAVE A
PLANNING COMMISSION?
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
OH, GOOD EVENING.
PLANNING COMMISSION?
MY CON HUSBAND IN THE CIVIL WAR
OH, GOOD EVENING.
WITH THE MIDDLE EAST THE WARS.
MY CON HUSBAND IN THE CIVIL WAR
BUT TONIGHT I'M SPEAKING TO YOU
WITH THE MIDDLE EAST THE WARS.
AS A MEMBER OF THE BOARD
BUT TONIGHT I'M SPEAKING TO YOU
OF DIRECTORS OF THE
AS A MEMBER OF THE BOARD
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE IN LOCATED
OF DIRECTORS OF THE
AT 921.
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE IN LOCATED
I'M SPEAKING TO YOU ON BEHALF
AT 921.
OF TO EXPRESS OUR SUPPORT FOR
I'M SPEAKING TO YOU ON BEHALF
SOUTHERN LEBANON FOR YOUR
OF TO EXPRESS OUR SUPPORT FOR
PROPOSAL FOR THIS EVENING.
SOUTHERN LEBANON FOR YOUR
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION IS A
PROPOSAL FOR THIS EVENING.
NONPROFIT THAT IS CURRENTLY
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION IS A
GOING TO FIFTY RESIDENTS FROM
NONPROFIT THAT IS CURRENTLY
THE THIRTY THREE DIFFERENT
GOING TO FIFTY RESIDENTS FROM
NATIONS INCLUDING STUDENTS AND
THE THIRTY THREE DIFFERENT
SCHOLARS SEEKING REFUGE FROM
NATIONS INCLUDING STUDENTS AND
INTERNATIONAL CONFLICT
SCHOLARS SEEKING REFUGE FROM
RESOLUTION, EDUCATIONAL
INTERNATIONAL CONFLICT
PROGRAMS FOSTERING
RESOLUTION, EDUCATIONAL
INTERCULTURAL INTERCULTURAL
PROGRAMS FOSTERING
UNDERSTANDING AND RESPECT AND
INTERCULTURAL INTERCULTURAL
BE PART OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY
UNDERSTANDING AND RESPECT AND
SINCE MANY OF YOU HAVE VESTED
BE PART OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY
INTEREST IN MAKING AN A VIBRANT
SINCE MANY OF YOU HAVE VESTED
PERVERSE A MORE EQUITABLE
INTEREST IN MAKING AN A VIBRANT
COMMUNITY FOR IS, WE WOULD LIKE
PERVERSE A MORE EQUITABLE
TO EXPRESS OUR SUPPORT FOR THE
COMMUNITY FOR IS, WE WOULD LIKE
PUBLIC BENEFITS BEING OFFERED
TO EXPRESS OUR SUPPORT FOR THE
BY THE SOUTHERN CITY PROJECT.
PUBLIC BENEFITS BEING OFFERED
THIS PROJECT WOULD BRING OVER
BY THE SOUTHERN CITY PROJECT.
1000 NEW NEIGHBORS TO AN AREA
THIS PROJECT WOULD BRING OVER
ADJACENT TO CAMPUS INCREASE
1000 NEW NEIGHBORS TO AN AREA
DENSITY CLOSE TO WHERE BORN
ADJACENT TO CAMPUS INCREASE
ATTEND SCHOOL AND PURSUE LEGAL
DENSITY CLOSE TO WHERE BORN
ACTIVITIES FOR RESIDENTS WHO
ATTEND SCHOOL AND PURSUE LEGAL
LIVE IN ONE OF THE MOST
ACTIVITIES FOR RESIDENTS WHO
DESIRABLE STATE IN THE
LIVE IN ONE OF THE MOST
INCREASING HOUSING SUPPLY THAT
DESIRABLE STATE IN THE
ALLOW FOR A PROBABILITY DENSITY
INCREASING HOUSING SUPPLY THAT
WHICH REDUCE RELIANCE ON
ALLOW FOR A PROBABILITY DENSITY
PRIVATE VEHICLES FOR
WHICH REDUCE RELIANCE ON
TRANSPORTATION, REDUCING
PRIVATE VEHICLES FOR
GREENHOUSE EMISSIONS AND
TRANSPORTATION, REDUCING
PROVIDES FOR CRACK AND THE
GREENHOUSE EMISSIONS AND
CUSTOMERS TO SUPPORT SMALL
PROVIDES FOR CRACK AND THE
BUSINESSES AND CONSTRUCT IT
CUSTOMERS TO SUPPORT SMALL
PROVIDES TAX REVENUE TO SUPPORT
BUSINESSES AND CONSTRUCT IT
LOCAL TRANSIT SCHOOLS FOR MOST
PROVIDES TAX REVENUE TO SUPPORT
LIBRARIES AND GOVERNMENT
LOCAL TRANSIT SCHOOLS FOR MOST
SERVICES INCLUDING SUPPORT FOR
LIBRARIES AND GOVERNMENT
THE CONSTRUCTION OF SUBSIDIZED
SERVICES INCLUDING SUPPORT FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS AND AS
THE CONSTRUCTION OF SUBSIDIZED
THE HOME TO STUDENTS AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS AND AS
SCHOLARS AROUND THE WORLD AND
THE HOME TO STUDENTS AND
MAKES OUR NEIGHBORHOODS SPECIAL
SCHOLARS AROUND THE WORLD AND
IS PRECISELY ITS PROXIMITY TO
MAKES OUR NEIGHBORHOODS SPECIAL
CAMPUS HOUSING MARKET IS
IS PRECISELY ITS PROXIMITY TO
BECOMING INCREASINGLY
CAMPUS HOUSING MARKET IS
UNAFFORDABLE DUE TO RESTRICTIVE
BECOMING INCREASINGLY
ZONING.
UNAFFORDABLE DUE TO RESTRICTIVE
PEOPLE WANT TO LIVE HERE AND
ZONING.
THEY ALWAYS WILL.
PEOPLE WANT TO LIVE HERE AND
SO LET'S MAKE IT EASIER FOR
THEY ALWAYS WILL.
MORE PEOPLE, MORE PEOPLE TO
SO LET'S MAKE IT EASIER FOR
JOIN BY THE WATER IN THE POST
MORE PEOPLE, MORE PEOPLE TO
TO US.
JOIN BY THE WATER IN THE POST
SO WE NEED TO SUPPORT TO THE
TO US.
ONE INTEREST WE HAVE IN THE
SO WE NEED TO SUPPORT TO THE
HOUSE AND I HOPE THAT YOU WILL
ONE INTEREST WE HAVE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVELY TO RECOMMEND
HOUSE AND I HOPE THAT YOU WILL
APPROVAL OF THIS PROJECT.
AFFIRMATIVELY TO RECOMMEND
THANK YOU.
APPROVAL OF THIS PROJECT.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS ADAM
THANK YOU.
GOODMAN.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS ADAM
HE HAD PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
GOODMAN.
THE COMMISSION
.
ED DENHA ALSO SPEAKING TO YOU
FROM THE FIFTH WARD
.
I'M TALKING TO YOU TONIGHT
BECAUSE I THINK THIS IS A
FANTASTIC AND IT'S FANTASTIC
BECAUSE IT BEATS SO MANY URGENT
NEEDS THAT OUR COMMUNITY FACES
WITH DIRECTLY PROVIDING LOTS
OF STUDENT HOUSING LESS THAN
TWO BLOCKS MAYBE ARGUABLY LESS
THAN ONE BLOCK FROM THE CENTRAL
CAMPUS THAT WAS BADLY NEEDED AT
THE UNIVERSITY.
IT'S INCREASED ENROLLMENT
ATHLETES IN THE LAST SEVERAL
YEARS THIS WAS PROVIDED SIX
POINT THREE MILLION DOLLAR
CONTRIBUTIONS FOR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IS ALSO NEEDED BECAUSE
THE CITY AMBITIOUS PLANS TO
BUILD SUBSIDIZED AFFORDABLE
HOUSING INTO THE BLOCKS AND WE
DON'T HAVE ENOUGH MONEY TO DO
IT ESPECIALLY GAS DEVELOPMENT
COSTS CONTINUE TO ESCALATE THE
TOTAL AMOUNT FROM AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IN THE LITERATURE IN
THE NY TWENTY FOUR BUDGET IS
SEVEN POINT TWO MILLION SO THIS
IS ONE PROJECT NEARLY DOUBLE
OUR ANNUAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING
REVENUE FOR A CITY THAT WOULD
BE HUGE.
AND FINALLY IF I IF I
UNDERSTAND CORRECTLY THIS IS
FULLY ELECTRIC UP FOR A BACKUP
GENERATOR OR OTHER
SIGNIFICATIVE ABILITY AND
AGAIN, YOU KNOW THE PLANNING
COMMISSION HAS BEEN WORKING
HARD AND STRUGGLING TO SEE
PROJECTS LIKE THIS COME TO THE
TABLE HERE AS WELL.
BUT WE HAVE DENIED
REPRESENTATION WHICH FRANKLY IS
VERY CONCERNING.
I THINK THAT RECOMMENDATION
GOES WELL BEYOND WHAT'S
STRICTLY REQUIRED BY A STRICTLY
TECHNICAL ANALYSIS.
THE CDC HAS A PLAN AND FEARS
QUITE FAR REACHING OPINIONS AND
ADJUSTMENTS AND I MEAN WE'RE
REALLY USING FIELD CODE TO
IDENTIFY WHAT WE THINK THIS
COMMUNITY IS.
WE JUST WHAT WE THINK THIS
COMMUNITY VALUE.
WE JUST HAVE POSSIBLY JUSTIFY
THAT.
SO I REALLY WANT TO APPLAUD THE
DEVELOPER FOR BRINGING THIS
PROPOSAL IN SPITE OF THAT
PUSHBACK FROM THE PLANNING
DEPARTMENT AND NOT SCALED DOWN
DRAMATICALLY AS FAR AS CITY
PLANNERS APPARENTLY LAUNCHED.
BY THE WAY, I ACTUALLY TOOK A
LITTLE BIKE RIDE DOWN THE
STREET TODAY AND I THINK IN
TERMS OF THE MAP JUST HOW CLOSE
THIS IS TO PROBABLY LOOK LIKE
IT'S LITERALLY CATTYCORNER AND
IT'S DIRECTLY ACROSS THE STREET
FROM DETROIT.
SO THE IDEA THAT THE SIZE
OF THIS PROJECT DOESN'T FIT THE
CONTEXT OF THE SITE LAUGHABLE
AND YOU KNOW, MULTIPLE CITIES
DO HAVE CLOSE PROXIMITY AND
THEY CAN COEXIST PEACEFULLY, I
PROMISE.
SO ALL THIS IS TO SAY I THINK
THIS IS THE RIGHT PRODUCT IN
THE RIGHT PLACE AT THE RIGHT
TIME AND I HOPE TO SEE A STRONG
SHOW OF SUPPORT FROM THE
COMMUNITY HERE TONIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
JUST ONE MOMENT
OUR NEXT CALLER IS ON NUMBER
ENDING IN FIVE THREE FOUR.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
A
LITTLE BIT START OVER A FROM
ONE TWO ZERO TWO TRADERS IN
LOWER.
I AGREE WITH THAT.
THIS PROJECT THE ONLY REAL TO
THAT I THINK BY HERE YOU HAVE
TO THINK OF THE COMPANY AND
SOME OF THE OTHER SPEAKERS THAT
PART OF OUR REVISION PROCESS SO
WE CAN POINT SOMETHING AND TO
CHANGE PLANS FOR THIS AREA IN
WHICH CASE PERHAPS BUILDING
THIS PROJECT IT COULD BE AT
THAT POINT WOULD CALL FOR
SOMETHING LIKE THIS UNTIL SUCH
TIME.
I AGREE WITH THAT.
I WOULD LIKE TO POINT OUT MAY
WELL BE CONSIDERED VERY
IMPORTANT THAT WE SIMPLY DO
THINGS BECAUSE WE DO WANT TO WE
GET A LOT OF LEGAL TROUBLE FOR
THE CITY IF WE DO NOT HAVE
CONSISTENCY AFTER NOT ZONING,
WE FOLLOW THE WHERE WE COULD
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY AND
ACTUALLY APPROVE OF SOMETHING
ELSE WHICH DID NOT MEET WITH
THE COURT, YOU KNOW, IN THE
ORIGO WAY TO DO IN THIS
BUILDING IN WHAT WILL HAPPEN BY
NOT HAVING THAT OPPORTUNITY
HERE IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH
WE NOT KNOW YOU WOULD WANT TO
LIVE BY APPROVING A PUDI AND
IT'S GOT A VERY WELL SOMETHING
TO DO NOT ACTUALLY IT TO THE
MILLION DOLLAR OF NO.
I AM LOOKING AT THE MILLION
AFFORDABLE HOUSING HERE AND I
REALLY WANT TO ORDER AND I
WOULD LIKE RATHER THAN APPEAL
TO DEAL WITH SIX MILLION
DOLLARS FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
THERE AND I MET THIS GUY THAT
WOULD GIVE US THE EXACT DEAL
BUT WITHOUT THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING I DON'T SEE THAT
HAPPENING HERE.
NOT WORRIED ABOUT HERE BUT FOR
ME I'M CONCERNED IN OTHER
PLACES IF WE DON'T
INCONSISTENTLY FIND OURSELVES
IN LEGAL JEOPARDY OF LIVING ON
OTHER PROPERTIES I DON'T WANT
TO WHERE IT DOESN'T BELONG IT'S
AN ATTRACTIVE BUILDING, A
FOOTPRINT AND PERHAPS A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OR VISION IS
COMPLETED THAT WOULD BE
APPROPRIATE THE MOMENT I AGREE
WITH THAT EVALUATION.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS ELLEN
REMSBERG.
YOU'VE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION YOU'RE EVENING
ELLEN RAMSBURG OUT OF IT THREE
CAMBRIDGE ROAD BLOCK WHAT I
HAVE FROM THE SIDE OF I ALSO
AGREE WITH STARS VERY WELL
ALWAYS REPORT I THOUGHT SHE
TRIED.
I DON'T PLAN TO STEP THROUGH A
BALANCE BETWEEN WHAT IS THE
PLAN OF THE SOCIETY AND POINTED
OUT I BELIEVE THAT OTHER THAN
THE INCREASING DENSITY
INCREASING HOUSING WOULD BE
POSSIBLE UNDER OTHER LESS
IMPACTFUL ZONING D D TO OR EVEN
THE RNC COULD INCREASE HOUSING
STOCK BUT NOT HAVE THE NEGATIVE
IMPACT ON THE CHILD CARE CENTER
AND THE SURROUNDING
NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH IS LOWER
SCALE AND I AND I DISAGREE THAT
S UNIVERSITY HAS COME BECAUSE
THAT HAS BECOME A MORE CLEANER
,SAFER AREA.
IT IS.
IT IS IT IS FOR ANYONE WHO IS
NOT A STUDENT.
IT IS A VERY UNWELCOMING AREA.
I THINK THAT THE FLEXIBILITY
THAT THE APPLICANT SEEKS IN THE
PUBLIC COULD BE ACHIEVED WITH
REGARD TO ZONING OR YOU CAN
CALL OUR ZONING.
THE REQUEST IS NOT REALLY
COMPLEX.
THE IS FOR INCREASED PROPERTY.
THESE WILL BE EXPENSIVE HOUSING
AS AS FAR AS NEW STUDENT
HOUSING ALWAYS IS.
I DON'T THINK THE IRAQIS WANT A
CHANGE THIS MORNING.
I THINK ALL THE SPEAKERS WHO
HAVE SPOKEN THE NECESSITY
OF ADHERING TO OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN UNTIL IT IS
REVISED ARE OTHERWISE POINTS TO
BE MADE AT THE COUNCIL.
SO THE PLANNING COMMISSION
SHOULD REALLY RESPECT THE
EXPERTIZE OF ITS PLANNING STAFF
IN POINTING OUT THE DANGERS
OF CHANGING THIS TO APPEAR TO
BE ZONING AND ALLOWING A
BUILDING THAT IS SO MASSIVE IN
SCALE SO MUCH LARGER THAN ITS
NEIGHBORS TO SO SO I URGE YOU
TO GIVE THIS CONSIDERABLE
ATTENTION AND TO TO DENY THE
APPLICATION.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT CALLER OF THREE
REMAINING HANDS IS BRANDON
DEMCHUK.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION
PRESIDENTIAL
PARDON FOR 14.
I WANT TO ASK IN THE FOURTH
QUARTER NATIVE MOTION TO
APPROVE THE REASON I AM
FOCUSING ON FIRST THROUGH THIS
PROJECT WILL PROVIDE 1211 OF MY
CLIENTS TO HAVE A BLOCK FROM
CAMPUS AND CONTRIBUTE SIX
MILLION DOLLARS TO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND.
MR. ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND ELEVEN
STUDENTS TO LIVE ON THE SMALL
SIDE INSTEAD OF OCCUPIED OVER
ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY SIX
BETTER STUDENT HOUSING PROVIDED
BY THE RECOMMENDATION FOR MY
OFFICE BASED ON THE OPINION AS
TO OUR EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD I
DISAGREE.
THIS BUILDING FITS IN PERFECTLY
WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT IS ACROSS THE STREET FROM MY
DAUGHTER ADJACENT TO
FRATERNITIES KITTY CORNER OR
ANOTHER IN HIGH RISE AND THE
SOUND OF THE HEART OF THE
STRUCTURE IS NOT BEING A SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THERE IS CLOSE TO THE CAMPUS
AND I HAVE RECENTLY APPROVED
STUDENT HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.
THIS THIS AREA SHOULD HAVE BEEN
DONE BY NOW BUT THE WAY TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, THE RESOLVE
TOGETHER IS ALMOST ENTIRELY
OF STUDENTS AND IT'S A PERFECT
LOCATION FOR MORE THAN HALF
OF THE TIME WE WERE HAPPY
TO
BUILD THERE AND SHE WILL NOT
FALL INTO THE DEEP INTO DEEP
INTO THE HOTTEST PART OF THE
LATE AFTERNOON WHEN THEY
PROBABLY WILL BE HAPPY TO GIVE
SOME SPEAKING OF SHADE, IT'S
NOT JUST GOING TO SHOW I'M NOT
GOING TO SHED A SINGLE TEAR IF
A SLIVER OF SHADOWS ON A
PARKING STRUCTURE THE BEER PONG
TABLE IS THE WALL STREET VIEW
AND THE PEOPLE WAITING IN LINE
IN THE PARKING LOT OPENING THE
NIGHT THE SCHOOL IS OF COURSE
SMALLER PROJECTS STUDIO DENIES
SIX MILLION DOLLARS FUNDING FOR
FURTHER TESTING OUR PARTNERS.
HOW IS IT DIFFERENT WHEN YOU
SAY YES TO SOLVING ONE OF OUR
BIGGEST PROBLEMS WITH OUR CITY
AND THE OF ITSELF AND IT
PROMOTES EFFICIENT USE SO
PLEASE APPROVE.
THAT'S WHAT YOU HAVE TO SECURE
THE SIX MILLION DOLLARS
AFFORDABLE AND BRING US 100000
PEOPLE CLOSER TO OUR HOUSING
CRISIS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
OUR SECOND TO LAST CALLER IS
ROCKSMITH YOUR PERMISSION TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
BY ROCKSMITH COMING IN FROM THE
FIFTH WARD?
I FULLY SUPPORT THIS PROJECT.
I THINK IT'S SHAMEFUL TO BE
QUOTING REPEALED THE CITY
CODE JUST FOR A RESPONSE AND
PEOPLE LIVING IN LUXURY SINGLE
FAMILY HOUSING IN THE AREA.
THIS IS GOING TO BRING MILLIONS
INTO OUR FUND.
THIS IS COMPLETELY IN CHARACTER
FOR THE AREA LOCATED AT ACROSS
THE STREET FROM A DOOR IF YOU
CAN BY THE PROPERTY I COULD
THROW UP EXACTLY THE PROJECT
AND WE JUST WOULDN'T GET
ANYTHING FROM ASIDE FROM
HOUSING.
A LOT OF PEOPLE USE A TANGIBLE
TO OUR COMMUNITY.
THESE OTHER THINGS REALLY AND
YOU KNOW, IT'S LIKE CHILDREN
ARE GOING TO BE CONSTRUCTING A
BUILDING LIKE BUT DON'T BE
SILLY.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER CALLERS OUR OUR LAST
CALLER IS ERIC SACKUR.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
PLANNING COMMISSION
.
HELLO, THIS IS ERIC.
I'M ROBERT PRAIRIE STRANGERS'
THE SECOND WARD IN THE
NORTHEAST CORNER OF TOWN AND
I'M JUST CALLING TO SAY THAT I
AGREE WITH MOST OF THE CALLERS
TONIGHT.
I THINK THIS PROJECT SHOULD BE
APPROVED DESPITE THE
RECOMMENDATION FROM THE
PLANNING STAFF.
I DISAGREE THAT IT DOESN'T HAVE
ANY COMMUNITY BENEFITS.
IT HAS A LOT OF BENEFITS THAT
JUSTIFY THIS ONLY I HEARD
EARLIER TONIGHT SOME PEOPLE
SAYING WE SHOULD DENY THIS
PROJECT BECAUSE WE'RE NOT VERY
MUCH TO A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
AND THIS IS A LAW AND YEAH,
THAT'S TRUE AND A IS LEGAL IT
IS PART OF THE LAW ZONING
PROCESS AND IT'S COMPLETELY
ETHICAL TO APPROVE KUDAYEV THAT
MEETS THE COMMUNITY BENEFITS
LIKE THIS ONE DOES.
THIS TAKES MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
IN AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CONTRIBUTIONS.
I MEAN COME ON, THAT'S A HUGE
OFFER AND JUST PROVIDING
STUDENT HOUSING IN THIS AREA IN
AN AREA OF TOWN, IT'S POSSIBLE
IT'S ALREADY FULL OF STUDENTS
DESPITE SOME OF THE EARLIER
COMMENTARIES THIS IS NOT A
QUOTE UNQUOTE RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT IS STUDENT HOUSES, EVEN THE
RESIDENTIAL AREAS DIRECTLY
ADJACENT TO IT.
YOU OK?
I'M ON GOOGLE STREET VIEW
OF YOU RIDE YOUR BIKE PAST EACH
HOUSE HAS ABOUT SIX MAILBOXES
ON IT AND THEY'VE GOT A BEER
PONG TABLE RIGHT UP FRONT THE
OTHER PARTS THERE'S SOME PEOPLE
WHO CONSISTENTLY CALL INTO THIS
AND ANY OTHER HOUSING IN THE
CITY BUT THE LADY KILLER
PROJECT BY PROCESS IS A
SURVIVAL TACTIC THAT WE'VE SEEN
A LOT OF TIMES BEFORE.
PEOPLE JUST WANT TO USE ANY
MEMBER POSSIBLE STRATEGY TO AS
FAR AS ZONING GOES.
I MEAN I AND WE'RE GOING TO
VARY SOME OF YOU MAY REMEMBER
THERE IS A YOU CREDIT UNION
THAT WAS RECENTLY APPROVED TO
GO IN AT THE END OF MY
RESIDENTIAL STREET AND IT IS
PERFECTLY LEGAL FOR THE CREDIT
UNION TO BUILD A SINGLE STORY
BANK RIGHT NEXT TO ANOTHER BANK
THAT'S ANOTHER BLOCK DOWN FROM
SIX MORE BANKS AND SO SELLING
MAY BE ILLEGAL PROCESS BUT IT
DOES NOT ALWAYS GET THE BEST
RESULTS WHEN THEY ARE DEALING
WITH ANTIQUATED AND MUCH
DELAYED.
SO I MEAN LOOK AT THIS PROJECT.
THIS PROJECT IS FANTASTIC.
LOTS OF BENEFITS.
WOULD YOU RATHER SEE SOMETHING
WHERE YOU'RE REPLACING IT WITH
THE DRIVE THRU OR A SINGLE
SMALL BUSINESS?
I THINK THE ANSWER TO THAT IS
REALLY EASILY SO.
I WOULD URGE YOU TO VOTE YES,
DO THE RIGHT THING AND YOU KNOW
,MAKE THIS A BETTER PLACE FOR
STUDENTS AND OTHER PEOPLE TO
THANK YOU.
THAT WAS OUR LAST CALLER.
OK, WITH THAT I'LL CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT OR READ OFF THE
PROPOSED MOTIONS AND I WOULD
LIKE TO HAVE A DISCUSSION WITH
PLANNING COMMISSION WITH
RESPECT TO WHETHER WE'D LIKE TO
TAKE BOTH MOTIONS TOGETHER OR
SEPARATELY.
SO I WILL READ THEM RIGHT NOW
AND THEN I WILL ASK THE
COMMISSION BRIEFLY IF THEY
WOULD LIKE TO HEAR IT TOGETHER
OR SEPARATELY.
THE PROPOSED MOTION IS AN WITH
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE THE SEVEN
ELEVEN CHURCH STREET PLAN UNIT
DEVELOPMENT ZONING DISTRICT AND
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
SUBJECT THE NECESSARY REVISIONS
AS DIRECTED BY THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION.
THE SECOND MOTION IS THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY APPROVE
THE SEVEN ELEVEN CHURCH STREET
PLAN UNIT DEVELOPMENT SITE PLAN
AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
SUBJECT TO ADDRESSING
OUTSTANDING REVIEW COMMENTS.
COMMISSIONER WAGE YEAH PUBLIC
NO.
I WAS ACTUALLY GOING TO I WAS
ACTUALLY GOING TO ASK THE
COMMISSION BEFORE WE MOVE
WHETHER WE'D LIKE TO TAKE THIS
TOGETHER OR SEPARATELY.
DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANY STRONG
FEELINGS WITH RESPECT TO THAT?
I THINK WE CAN PROBABLY HEAR
THIS ONE TOGETHER SO READING
THEM CONCURRENTLY I WILL SAY
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER WEITZEN
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MILLS.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION.
THANK YOU FOR ALL OF THE
COMMENTS.
WHO WOULD LIKE TO KICK US OFF
COMMISSIONER WAGE?
THANK YOU.
I WANT TO FIRST THANK THE
PETITIONER AS WELL AS ALL
OF THE MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC
WHO SPOKE ABOUT THIS PETITION.
AND I ALSO JUST WANT TO SAY
THANK YOU TO THE PETITIONERS
FOR BRINGING THIS PROPOSAL TO
US, ESPECIALLY IN THIS CLIMATE.
I HAVE IT TOOK ME A WHILE TO
MOVE THROUGH ALL OF THE
DOCUMENTS THAT HAVE ACCRUED
SINCE THIS CAME AS A PROPOSAL
OR PREPARED AND I ACTUALLY HAD
TO REACH OUT TO PLANNING
BECAUSE SOME OF THE DOCUMENTS
WEREN'T AVAILABLE ON OUR PUBLIC
SYSTEMS BUT THEY WERE
REFERENCED IN OTHER DOCUMENTS
AND IT LOOKED LIKE THERE WAS
SOME 40 DOCUMENTS EXCHANGED
BACK AND FORTH REGARDING THIS
AND I TRIED TO REVIEW THEM ALL
BECAUSE IT'S BEEN A VERY
SIGNIFICANT PROCESS.
SO I JUST WANT TO THANK YOU ALL
FOR BRINGING THIS PROJECT TO
US.
I THINK IT'S I THINK IT'S A
GOOD PROJECT.
I PLAN ON SUPPORTING THIS
PROJECT TONIGHT HERE AT THE
TABLE THERE ARE A COUPLE THINGS
THAT I WANT IT TO HIGHLIGHT
BEFORE I GET INTO MY QUESTIONS.
ONE, I THINK AS YOU WOULD
PRESENT TO US AND THEN
EVENTUALLY TO CITY COUNCIL
BECAUSE THIS WILL MOVE PAST OUR
TABLE TO CITY COUNCIL WHO WILL
MAKE THE ULTIMATE DECISION THAT
YOU MAY WANT TO BE MORE
EXPLICIT.
I KNOW YOU ALREADY HAVE YOUR
COMMUNITY BENEFITS DOCUMENT
WHICH IS A PRETTY A PDF THAT'S
BEEN ATTACHED BUT MORE EXPLICIT
AROUND THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AND YOU'VE HEARD FROM A NUMBER
OF CALLERS ABOUT THAT THE SIX
POINT THREE MILLION DOLLARS
BASED ON MY BACK OF THE NAPKIN
CALCULATION AND USING THE ONE
TWENTY ONE CATHERINE STREET
PROJECT AS A FINANCIAL GUIDE OR
TWENTY TO SEVENTY FLAT ROAD AS
A FINANCIAL GUIDE FOR
DEVELOPING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
IN OUR COMMUNITY MEANS THAT
YOUR SIX POINT THREE
CONTRIBUTION HAS THE POTENTIAL
OF CREATING THREE HUNDRED AND
FIFTY SEVEN UNITS
OF PERMANENTLY AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FOR THE CITY OF ANN.
I THINK THAT IS A SIGNIFICANT
COMMUNITY BENEFIT AND IT SHOULD
BE HIGHLIGHTED AND IT'S USING
REAL WORLD DATA BASED ON REAL
DEVELOPERS WHO ARE BUILDING
THIS KIND OF HOUSING IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
SO YOUR PROPOSAL PROPOSES TO
BUILD TWO HUNDRED AND SEVENTY
THREE UNITS OF MARKET RATE BUT
IT ALSO CONTRIBUTES UP TO 300
AND FIFTY UNITS OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
SO I THINK THAT MESSAGING
SHOULD BE MADE CLEAR.
IT WAS SURPRISING TO ME FROM
OUR LAST CONVERSATION WITH YOU
THAT YOU WERE ABLE TO ACQUIRE A
BETTER LAND ASSEMBLAGE.
SO IT LOOKS LIKE YOU WERE ABLE
TO GET THOSE PROPERTIES THAT
YOU DIDN'T SHOW US, IS THAT
CORRECT?
SO YOU'RE GOING ALL THE WAY TO
WILLOTT AT THIS POINT.
SO I THINK THAT THAT'S ANOTHER
SIGNIFICANT THING THAT NEEDS TO
BE HIGHLIGHTED.
I SAW THAT THERE WAS AN
ADDITION OF TOWNHOMES THAT YOU
ARE HIGHLIGHTING THAT WAS
SURPRISING TO ME.
I DIDN'T LEARN ABOUT THAT UNTIL
IT WAS HIGHLIGHTED ON THE
SLIDES THAT YOUR ARCHITECT
BROUGHT FORWARD AND THAT'S TO
ACTIVATE
A GROUND FLOOR AGAIN,
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE
SPEAK ABOUT WHEN WE SEE THESE
VERY DENSE TALL BUILDINGS HOW
YOU ARE MAKING A HUMAN SCALE
AND THAT'S WHAT WE SAW AT THREE
THIRTY ONE WILLIAM STREET WHICH
I THOUGHT WAS GOOD ADDITION TO
THAT PROJECT THE ONE THING THAT
IS MISSING AND I COULD NOT FIND
IT AND EITHER STAFF OR THE
PETITIONER CAN HELP ME WITH IT
BECAUSE YOU HAVE LIKE FOUR
VERSIONS OF YOUR SIGHT PLAN IN
ALL OF THE DOCUMENTS I COULD
NOT SEE CLEARLY ON THE SITE
PLAN HOW YOU PLAN TO HANDLE THE
BIG PARKING SO YOU HAVE GROUND
FLOOR BIKE PARKING BUT THEN YOU
ALSO HAVE SUB TURNELL BIKE
PARKING AND SO IF THAT'S
AVAILABLE AND EITHER
PRESENTATION IF SOMEONE COULD
SHOW ME WHAT THAT PARKING LOOKS
LIKE BECAUSE ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT IS MISSING AS WE BUILD THE
PARKING AND THANK YOU FOR
INCREASING IT FROM WHAT YOU
PREVIOUSLY PROPOSED TO FIVE
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY FIVE SPACES
BUT HOW ARE YOU PLANNING TO
HANDLE CARGO BIKE PARKING AND
MAKING SURE THAT THAT PARKING
IS AVAILABLE AT THE GROUND
FLOOR BECAUSE THOSE BIKING
UNITS ARE HEAVIER AS WELL AS
HOW DO YOU PLAN TO HELP PEOPLE
PARK ELECTRIC BIKES WHERE THEY
MIGHT NOT BE ABLE TO STAND
THOSE UP OR LIFT THEM UP ON
RACKS SO MAKING SURE THAT
THERE'S ENOUGH PARKING FOR
THOSE TYPES OF BIKE UNITS SO
THAT'S A QUESTION THAT I WOULD
LIKE EITHER STAFF OR THE
PETITIONER TO ADDRESS AND THEN
THE WHOEVER SPOKE FIRST AND I'M
NOT NOT SURE FIRST CHRISTOPHER
NOT CHRISTOPHER BUT THE SECOND
PERSON WHO SPOKE AFTER HIM SAID
THAT THERE WAS THIRTEEN MILLION
DOLLARS OF PUBLIC BENEFITS.
MY CALCULATIONS GOT US TO
ELEVEN MILLION SEVEN HUNDRED
AND TWENTY AND I CAN ENUMERATE
HOW I GOT TO THAT NUMBER SO
MISSING ABOUT ONE POINT TWO
MILLION DOLLARS OF PUBLIC
BENEFIT AND I WOULD LIKE THAT
TO BE EXTERNALIZE IF THAT
NUMBER IS IN FACT THE CASE.
OK, THAT'S WHERE I'LL START.
SO WHY DON'T WE GO WITH THE
BIKE PARKING IF SOMEONE HAS AN
ANSWER FOR THAT ONE IT'S GOING
TO IF YOU CAN PULL UP THE BIKE
PARK BASICALLY WE HAVE RIGHT
PARKING IN TWO LEVELS STACK ON
THE TOP AND NOW THAT THERE'S A
GROUND ENTRANCE OFF OF THE
VEHICULAR ACCESS AT THE EAST
SIDE OF THE BUILDING THAT GIVES
EVERYBODY ABOUT DIRECT ACCESS
FROM THE SIDEWALK THROUGH THE
VEHICULAR WAY, I DON'T KNOW IF
WE CAN BELOW THAT WE NEED MICRO
YES.
THAT ANYWAY SO THAT SO PART THE
BIPARTISAN THE FOR SOMEONE TO
BRING THEIR BIKES INTO THE
GROUND FLOOR THERE ARE PARKING
SPACES AVAILABLE THERE IN A
VARIETY OF CONFIGURATIONS AND
THEN IF THAT PART OF THE
BICYCLE STORAGE AREA IS FULL,
THERE'S SEGMENTED STAIRWAY
LEADING TO LOWER LEVEL THAT HAS
A BIKE RAIL SO YOU CAN WEAR
YOUR BIKE TO WORK AND THERE'S A
LARGER PHYSICAL FOOTPRINT IN
THE LOWER THAN FIRST BECAUSE
THERE ARE SO MANY COMPETING
NEEDS FOR FIRST LEVEL AND THEN
FROM THE LOWER LEVEL IF IF YOU
WANTED TO WHEN YOU WANTED TO
USE YOUR BIKE YOU COULD TAKE IT
UP THE STAIRS IN THE RAIL OR
YOU COULD PUT IT IN THE
ELEVATOR TOGETHER WITH THE
FIRST
.
GOT IT.
THANK YOU.
AND THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS
WOULD LIKE TO ASK THE QUESTIONS
OR COMMENTS.
COMMISSIONER OR OTHER B I'LL
START WITH SOME.
SO ONE THING THAT HAS COME UP
THAT I SAW SUSTAINABILITY AND
THIS IS GOING TO BE A BIG THING
FOR ME BECAUSE WHOEVER LIVES IN
THIS BUILDING, HOWEVER LONG IT
EXISTS, THAT'S GOING TO BE A
BIG DEAL.
I SAW IN THE DOCUMENTS THERE
WERE SEVERAL DIFFERENT
STATEMENTS ABOUT THE ELECTRIC
ALL ELECTRIC OF THIS BUILDING.
ONE WAS ALL ELECTRIC EXCEPT FOR
GAS GENERATOR FOR BACKUP BACKUP
GENERATOR.
ONE WAS ALL ELECTRIC, ONE WAS
ALL ELECTRIC EXCEPT FOR GAS
GENERATOR AND HOT WATER HEATING
OR HOT WATER.
IT'S A BIG DIFFERENCE AND YOU
KNOW, I AM LOOKING FOR ALL
ELECTRIC SO WHATEVER YOU CAN DO
THAT GETS CLOSER TO ALL
ELECTRIC IS A LOT BETTER THAN
THE SUDDEN WOW IT'S ALL
ELECTRIC EXCEPT FOR THESE FIVE
THINGS THAT ARE GOING TO EXIST.
I COMPLETELY UNDERSTAND AND LET
ME EXPLAIN THE EVOLUTION
OF THOSE STATEMENTS AS
DOCUMENTS WERE FILED AS WE
BEGAN TO WORK WITH DTD, IT
BECAME APPARENT THAT THE
PREVIOUS PROJECT I WAS HERE FOR
YOU ALL SEVEN TWENTY ONE WHICH
COMMITTED OVER UNFAIREST WHICH
COMMITTED TO BE A VOLUNTARY
BUILDING EIGHT UP THE REMAINING
CAPACITY IN THAT CIRCUIT AND SO
THEY DON'T HAVE THE AMOUNT
OF ELECTRICITY AVAILABLE TO
SERVE THE NEEDS OF THE BUILDING
IF WE WERE TO TRY TO COMMIT TO
ELECTRIC.
SO WHEREAS THAT WAS OUR
ORIGINAL GOAL AS WE BEGAN TO
MEET WITH AND FIND OUT WHAT THE
CIRCUIT CAPACITY WAS IN THE
SOUTH UNIVERSE AREA, WE BEGAN
TO HAVE TO FIGURE OUT OTHER
ALTERNATIVES BECAUSE THERE
ISN'T ENOUGH ELECTRIC CAPACITY
IN THAT PART OF THE GRID.
WHAT WE ARE ABLE TO GET ABOUT
HALF OF ELECTRICITY WE WOULD
NEED TO MAKE THEM ALL
ELECTRICAL.
SO WE SENT OUR ENGINEERS ABOUT
IT COMING UP WITH A DESIGN THAT
WOULD GIVE US A STOPGAP MEASURE
UNTIL WE COULD GET TO A POINT
WHERE THE GRID WAS LOCATED IN
THE CITY COULD PROVIDE ENOUGH
ELECTRICITY TO OUR TO OUR
PROJECT.
AND SO WHAT'S BEEN EVOLVING IS
THE DESIGN.
SO WE'RE PRIMARILY ELECTRIC
THAT IS TO SAY OUR ELECTRIC
BOILERS ARE PRIMARILY ELECTRIC
BUT THEY HAVE AUXILIARY GAS
COMPONENT TO THEM SO THAT IN
PEAK PERIODS OF TIME TIME WHEN
PEOPLE ARE SHOWERING IN THE
MORNING OR OR TIMES WHEN THE
TEMPERATURE IS MINUS 20 OUTSIDE
AND THERE JUST ISN'T ENOUGH
CAPACITY WHAT WE CAN GET FROM
ELECTRICITY WE HAVE THE ABILITY
TEMPORARILY TO USE AUXILIARY
GAS.
I THINK YOU PROBABLY MAY
REMEMBER THAT THAT'S A SIMILAR
SITUATION IN A HOTEL RECENTLY
APPROVED HERE AND THEY HAD THE
SAME PROBLEM.
ISN'T THE ELECTRIC CAPACITY IS
IT?
WE ALSO COME UP WITH AN
INNOVATIVE GEOTHERMAL COMPANY
TO FIGURE OUT A WAY TO PUT
GEOTHERMAL BORES BETWEEN OUR
FOUNDATION FOOTINGS SO WE CAN
USE GROUND SOURCE HEAT PUMPS TO
AUGMENT THAT TO REALLY MINIMIZE
THE NEED FOR BURNING GAS ON
SITE.
BUT THERE'S WATER EVERYWHERE
YOU CAN LOOK AT AND THERE'S
JUST NO WAY TO BUILD A BUILDING
WITHOUT SOME SORT OF AUXILIARY
GAS COMPONENT TO IT UNTIL WE
GET AN UPGRADE UPGRADED THE OK,
I WAS AFRAID THAT'S WHAT YOU
MIGHT SAY AND THIS IS JUST I'M
JUST GOING TO SAY THIS AND I
DON'T KNOW WITH STAFF OR THE
PETITIONER IF THERE ARE WAYS
OF SOMEHOW CONTRIBUTING TO SOME
OH YEAH.
TO SOMEHOW EITHER ADDING SOLAR
OR ADDING TO A SOLAR FARM OR
BEING YOU KNOW, SOMEHOW MAKING
ALLOWANCES.
I REALIZE THAT'S NOT YOUR ISSUE
BUT YOU'RE AND IT'S A POD SO
YOU KNOW, WE CAN ASK FOR SOME
OF THESE THINGS THAT AND I
DON'T KNOW WHAT'S AVAILABLE SO
I'M SORT OF THROWING THAT OUT
THERE WHICH I KNOW ISN'T SUPER
HELPFUL TO YOU BUT IT'S JUST
IT'S A LITTLE I DIDN'T HOW IS
THIS GOING TO BE IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT OR IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS?
THAT MEANS THAT YOU DON'T JUST
GO OUT AND BUY GAS HEATERS.
I I ACCEPT THAT YOU ARE GOING
TO TRY AND THAT YOU'RE DOING A
LOT OF WORK ON THIS BUT THAT
DOESN'T HELP WHEN WE APPROVE
SOMETHING IF I DON'T SEE IT IN
THE IN THE DOCUMENTS AND AND
SAYING WE'RE GOING TO HAVE GAS
FOR THESE THINGS WHICH I
RECOGNIZE IS AGAIN NOT YOUR
FAULT DTT I YOU KNOW I WOULD
JUST LIKE TO KNOW THAT WE'RE
NOT JUST SAYING OH GREAT THANKS
AND MOVING ON SO THAT'S THAT'S
JUST SOMETHING BUT THANK YOU
FOR FOR YOUR STATEMENT.
I ALSO HAD A COUPLE OF OTHER
QUESTIONS.
ONE IS THE 250000 DOLLAR
DONATION TO DEEDI TO THE DDA
FOR A PUBLIC TOILET AND I
ASSUME THAT WASN'T JUST
SOMETHING YOU ALL CAME UP WITH
THAT MAYBE THAT WAS A
RECOMMENDATION SOMEWHERE.
BUT IT SOUNDS LIKE THE CITY IS
NOT SUPER KEEN ON THAT.
SO I'M JUST WONDERING WHERE
THAT CAME FROM.
SOME PEOPLE IN THE CITY ARE
SUPER OK SO SO THE PLANNING
DEPARTMENT IS UNSURE ABOUT THAT
GOING FORWARD BUT THAT THAT WAS
A RECOMMENDATION FROM THE WE WE
HAD A LIST OF URGENT NEEDS IF
YOU IF YOU WANT TO CALL IT THAT
FROM CITY ADMINISTRATIVE
OFFICE.
THAT WAS A TYPO.
OK, AND THEN ONE MORE THING
JUST TILL I LET IT GO TO
SOMEBODY ELSE THE COFFEE SHOP
IT LOOKS LIKE IN SOME OF THE
OTHER AREAS THE COFFEE SHOP IS
NOT PUBLIC FOR SOME OF THE
OTHER LV COLLECTIVE AND THAT'S
ACTUALLY BEEN A POINT
OF CONTENTION WHERE SECURITY
GUARDS ARE ESCORTING MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC OUT AFTER THEY
GET THEIR COFFEES AND SO
I'M
JUST WONDERING LIKE IS THIS IS
IT AND I SAW YOU SAID MORE IT
WAS LIKE A LIVING ROOM KIND
OF PART OF SO IS THAT A IS IT A
PUBLIC COFFEE SHOP THAT COULD
BE ANYONE I KNOW YOU HAVE A
PARTICULAR GROUP IN MIND BUT
COULD IT BE A STARBUCKS?
COULD IT BE A PREFERABLY LIKE A
RUSE ROAST OR A LOCAL NOT IT IS
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
IT IS A PARTNERSHIP THAT WE'VE
DEVELOPED FROM AN AWARD WINNING
COFFEE ROASTER OUT OF AUSTIN.
WE'VE WORKED WITH THEM TO HELP
BRAND IT AND THEY ARE ON BOARD
EVERYWHERE WE CAN FIND A PLACE
THAT WORKS WITH THEM.
WE LIKE IT BECAUSE FOLLOWS OUR
GOAL OF REALLY ENERGIZING THE
SIDEWALK IN THE LOWER LEVELS
OF THE BUILDING AND WE HAVE IT
ADJACENT TO OUR LOBBIES THOSE
I'M NOT FAMILIAR WITH THE CASES
THAT YOU BROUGHT UP WHERE
PEOPLE ARE BEING ESCORTED OUT
IN EVERY BUILDING THAT I'VE
WORKED TO APPROVE IT HAS BEEN
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
ALL RIGHT.
OK, THANK YOU.
THANK THROUGH THE CHAIR IF I
COULD BE RECOGNIZED.
YEAH, OF COURSE.
UM THANK YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO NOTE THAT
TYPICALLY WHEN THERE ARE
CONFLICTS ABOUT THE GRID AND
DTD DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED
AND I CHECKED WITH MISTILY I
DON'T BELIEVE THAT WE RECEIVED
THAT DOCUMENTATION TO MAYBE
SOMETHING THE PLANNING
COMMISSION REQUESTS.
THANK YOU.
WE DO HAVE A LETTER OF SERVICE
FROM DUTY WHICH SPECIFIES WHAT
THEY CAN PROVIDE.
SURE.
AND WE HAVE CALCULATIONS
REMINDING YOU TO TELL US WHAT
WE NEED TO BE IN ORDER.
BUT WE HAVE VERY GREAT THANK
YOU.
ALSO NOTE THAT THE THE SCALE IF
I JUST TAKE GOT TWO HUNDRED
FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS A UNIT
OR SOMETHING ALONG THOSE LINES
THIS IS LOOKING TO BE A PRETTY
SUBSTANTIAL PROJECT.
RIGHT.
AND SO BASED ON THE SIZE I
THINK THAT THERE'S ALSO
PROBABLY SOME LEVEL
OF COLLABORATION THAT COULD BE
DONE AS FAR AS UPGRADING THE
SUBSTATION GOES.
OBVIOUSLY THAT'S AS FAR LIKE
EQUITABLE CONTRIBUTION AS WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT THAT AT THIS TABLE
WHERE IT'S LIKE SEVEN TWENTY
ONE GOES FORWARD, IT'S UP MOST
OF IT IT'S LIKE THAT AND I
THINK THAT'S OFF POINT FOR
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
BUT AS FAR AS KIND OF LIKE
PROPORTIONALITY GOES BECAUSE I
THINK THAT'S AT THE CORE CRUX
OF THIS DISCUSSION JUST BASED
ON THE SIZE OF THIS YOU THAT
WE'VE UPGRADED SUBSTATIONS ON
DIFFERENT PROJECTS HAD KIND
OF A LESSER AMOUNT.
SO ANYWAY, JUST THE POINT
OF CLARIFICATION BUT WITH THAT
OTHER OTHER COMMISSIONERS WITH
COMMENTS QUESTIONS I'D LIKE TO
QUESTION MOST.
ALL RIGHT.
SO UM FIRST OF ALL, I WANT TO
SAY I DON'T THINK THAT THIS IS
OUT OF CHARACTER AND THIS IS
PROBABLY THE PLACE WHERE I
WOULD DISAGREE WITH STUFF IN A
MINUTE IN TERMS OF LIKE WHETHER
D ONE IS ACTUALLY THE
APPROPRIATE ZONING HERE BUT TO
SPOIL THE PUNCH LINE, I DON'T
THINK THAT IS APPROPRIATE HERE.
I I DON'T THINK THAT HOUSING
ALONE OR DENSITY ALONE IS THE
RIGHT BENEFIT BY THAT LOGIC,
PED'S COULD SHOULD BE
EVERYWHERE SO LONG AS THEY'RE
WILLING TO PAY INTO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND FOR
DENSITY THAT EXCEEDS THE
UNDERLYING DENSITY.
AND I DON'T THINK THAT THAT'S
WISE.
I DON'T THINK THAT MEETS THE
INTENTION OF HOW PDS ARE
SUPPOSED TO WORK TO BE REAL
CLEAR AGAIN AND I'M GOING TO
MAKE EVERYBODY MAD.
I THINK THIS IS THE PLACE FOR
DENSITY.
I THINK WE NEED TO CONSIDER
RECONSIDER WHERE OUR D ONE AND
TWO BOUNDARIES ARE AND I ALSO
WANT TO BE REAL CLEAR BECAUSE I
DO KNOW THAT I RECOGNIZE THAT
IF THIS WERE A REASON TO D ONE
OR TWO IT WOULDN'T MEAN THAT WE
WOULD HAVE THE PAYMENT INTO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND.
WE WOULD STILL GET THE PAYMENT
TO THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
VILLAGE FROM ANYTHING THAT'S
BUILT HERE.
BUT I WANT TO BE REAL CLEAR.
I UNDERSTAND BUT THAT THAT
REZONING TO AN ESTABLISHED
DISTRICT WOULD FORGO THAT.
UM, I THINK THE IN TERMS
OF WHAT OUR OLD CALLS FOR
REZONING TO A DISTRICT TO DO
ONE THIS IS WHAT IS WHAT IS
DRAWN HERE IS EFFECTIVELY D ONE
IT MAKES THAT THAT IS THE
ZONING DISTRICT HERE AND I
THINK IT REALLY I THINK WE NEED
TO HAVE THIS CONVERSATION ABOUT
WHERE THE BOUNDARY LIVES.
I AND I DON'T NECESSARILY KNOW
WE NEED TO WAIT FOR PEOPLE TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT HAPPENS IN THE
PLANNING OUT OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING
DISCUSSION.
JUST TO BE CLEAR, I'M PRETTY
SURE I SAID THIS AT THE
PREAPPROVAL MEETINGS LIKE THIS
SHOULD BE A SURPRISE AND SO
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT DENHA ONE
THAT'S NOT THE PROPOSAL FOR US.
IT'S FOR A D AND SO I DON'T
THINK THAT THE DENSITY I DON'T
THINK THAT AGAIN THE PUBLIC
DENSITY ALONE MEETS OUR
STANDARDS AND I THINK THAT
THERE IS ANOTHER DISTRICT THAT
DOES THAT.
SO WHAT WOULD THE PUBLIC
BENEFIT BE?
AND IN MY MIND IT'S MAXING OUT
THE SUSTAINABILITY WHICH MIGHT
BE CHALLENGING HERE.
BUT I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR THE
REASON MY UNDERSTANDING BEYOND
THE REASON FOR NO NATURAL GAS
CONNECTIONS IS THAT ONCE YOU
HAVE BUILDINGS THAT ARE HOOKED
UP TO NATURAL GAS, IT'S HARDER
TO BIGGENDEN THOSE LINES IN THE
FUTURE AND SO IT JUST
PERPETUATES THE SYSTEM AND SO I
THINK THAT THAT'S PROBLEMATIC
FOR ME.
BUT I CAN SEE THAT YOU'RE SO
CLOSE IN TERMS OF A LOT OF THE
SUSTAINABILITY BENEFITS BUT NOT
HAVING THAT LIKE I I DON'T I'M
NOT SURE WHAT THE PUBLIC I
DON'T THINK THAT IT MEETS THE
STANDARD THAT STANDARD.
SO THAT'S HOW I FEEL ABOUT
OVERALL WHETHER PDS IS
APPROPRIATE BUT I'M ALL FOR
OTHER COMMISSIONERS BENEFIT.
I'M GOING TO DO THE COMPARISON
TO DO IN PDS WHICH IS WHAT'S
SHOWN AND THEN WHAT'S IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS SO AND TO DO
THIS I DID THE ZONING
COMPARISON THAT I THINK WAS
SOMETHING THAT THE PETITIONER
PROVIDED.
I APPRECIATE IT BECAUSE IT
SHOWS A LOT THE DETAILS TO THE
KIND OF WHAT'S IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS.
AND SO JUST FOR EVERYBODY'S
BENEFIT, THE HIGHLIGHTS AT
LEAST SHOWN IS IN THE IN THE
FLIGHT PLAN 217 THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS ALLOW FOR TO
THIRTY THE SKEPTICS I'M NOT A
HUNDRED PERCENT SURE THE THE
BIGGEST SETBACK IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS CALLS FOR A
MINIMUM OF 16 FEET AND WHAT'S
SHOWN IS TWENTY FOUR FEET FROM
IN ONE PLACE.
SO I'M NOT UPSET BECAUSE I
DON'T THINK THAT THAT'S A HUGE
JUST A SMALL DISCREPANCY THERE
.
IT'S ACTUALLY THE IN THE
BICYCLE PARKING THAT ARE QUITE
DIFFERENT.
SO WHAT'S SHOWN IS FOUR HUNDRED
AND SIXTY SPACES THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS WILL CALL FOR
IS ONE FOR EACH UNIT WHICH
WOULD BE SEVEN OR TWO HUNDRED
AND SEVENTY TWO PLUS TEN GUESTS
SO SO WHAT SHOWS FOR 60 TO 80
TO IS WHAT I THINK THE
CALCULATION WOULD BE AND IN
TERMS OF VEHICULAR PARKING
WHAT'S SHOWN IS FORTY FOR THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS WOULD ALLOW
UP TO FIFTY TWO QUESTION THAT I
HAVE AROUND THAT IS AROUND THE
MULTIPLIER OF THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGS REQUIRE TWENTY PERCENT
EEVI AND I SEE SIX AND TWENTY
PERCENT FORTY FOUR WOULD
SUGGEST THAT THERE NEEDS TO BE
NINE SO I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S
A STAFFER PETITIONER AND I
DON'T KNOW IF IT'S A TYPO OR IN
WHICH DOCUMENT STAFF DO I MEAN
ASK THE PETITIONER OR DENHA I
HAVE I CAN SHED SOME LIGHT I
WAS GOING TO HOLD OFF RAISING
MY HAND UNTIL MAYBE YOU
COMPLETED YOUR ANALYSIS BUT I
CAN JUMP IN ALSO I ONLY HAVE
ONE OTHER THING THAT IT'S ONLY
QUASI RELATED SO PLEASE THAT
WAS MY MAYBE THERE'S MORE AND
IF THERE'S MORE IN THERE THOSE
ARE KEY THINGS THAT I KNOW
REGARDING THE HEIGHT I TOOK I
TOOK EDITORIAL LIBERTY IS ALSO
MY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR HAT WAS
PUT ON AND THE TWO HUNDRED
THIRTY EIGHT FOOT HEIGHT IT
WOULD INCLUDE ANY MECHANICAL
STRUCTURES OR THINGS.
I THINK THE HEIGHT LISTED WAS
MAYBE TO THE PARAPET THE HEIGHT
LISTED ON THE COMPARISON TABLE
OR THE RIGHT PERHAPS SO I
THOUGHT BY ARTICULATING IT AS
SEVENTEEN STORIES AND TWO
HUNDRED AND THIRTY FEET SO THAT
BOTH WOULD WORK IN CONCERT AT
SEVENTEEN STORIES A LIVABLE
AREA AND THEN THE HEIGHT OF THE
BUILDING TWO HUNDRED AND THIRTY
FEET WE MEASURE HEIGHT TO THE
TOP MOST THING SO NOW THIS ALL
CAN BE CHANGED.
I'M JUST EXPLAINING WHY THE
SITE PLAN CHOSE TO TWELVE OR
SOMETHING LIKE SEVENTEEN TO
SEVENTEEN AND TO THIRTY WAS PUT
IN REGARDING SETBACKS LEARNING
FROM LOCKWOOD THE SETBACKS
SHOWN ON THE SITE PLAN ARE
SOMETHING LIKE ONE FOOT POINT
SEVEN I PUT ZERO I TOOK SOME
LIBERTIES AS A ZONING
ADMINISTRATOR AND I THOUGHT
PLEASE DISCUSS AND CORRECT ME
BECAUSE THIS IS YOUR DOCUMENT.
I DID NOT SEE MUCH DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN A ONE FOOT SAT BACK AND
A ZERO IT BACK AND ESPECIALLY
NOT A ONE POINT SEVEN VERSUS
ONE SO IT WAS WRITTEN AT ZERO
FOR ENFORCEMENT AND FOR SOME
CONSTRUCTION WORK THE BIKE
PARKING SPACES, THE IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS IT
MATCHES THE ZONING ORDINANCE SO
THAT NUMBER CAN BE INCREASED OR
DECREASED BASED ON THE BENEFITS
IF FOUR HUNDRED AND SIXTY BIKE
PARKING SPACES ARE IMPORTANT
THAT NUMBER
CAN BE INSERTED OR
THE FORMULA CAN BE CHANGED.
SIMILARLY, IF CARGO BIKE SPACES
OR BIKE SPACES ARE IMPORTANT
THEY CAN BE ADDED OR NOT
REGARDING ELECTRIC VEHICLE
CHARGING SPACES THE MINIMUM 20
PERCENT THE NORMAL MINIMUM IS
10 PERCENT.
SO THIS IS WRITTEN TO REQUIRE
DOUBLE OF THE NORMAL CODE .
IT CAN BE REVISED TO BE A
NUMBER OF SPACES OR THE
PERCENTAGE CAN REMAIN BUT
THAT'S THE THAT'S WHERE THE
TWENTY PERCENT COMES FROM AND I
THINK THAT FORTY FOUR TO FIFTY
THREE VEHICLE SPACES MAY BE
JUST SOME VERSIONING THAT ONE
VERSION OF THE PLAN MIGHT HAVE
HAD 52 SPACES THAT GOT WRITTEN
AND SUPPLEMENTED REGULATIONS.
THE SITE PLAN HAS SUBMITTED HAS
FORTY FOUR EITHER ONE CAN BE
CHANGED AT THE DIRECTION OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
I PUT THAT OUT THERE BECAUSE
YOU IF YOU AGAIN IF YOU CARE
ABOUT THOSE THINGS, OTHER
THINGS YOU MIGHT WANT TO
CHANGE.
I'M CURIOUS AGAIN GOING BACK TO
OUR ELECTRICAL CONVERSATION
ABOUT HOW MANY DV CHARGERS ARE
PLANNED
.
SO WE HAVE WE DESIGNATE NINE
SPOTS BUT THE MY UNDERSTANDING
CORRECT ME IF I'M WRONG THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS ARE IN
ESSENCE A ZONING FOR THE
PARCEL.
THE SITE PLAN IS IT IS ITSELF A
AND SO WE HAVE TO WE HAVE TO
CRAFT A SITE PLAN THAT FITS
WITHIN THE ZONING SO MAYBE THAT
THE ZONING CONTEMPLATES A FEW
MORE PARKING SO THAT WE
ACTUALLY HAVE ON THE FRONT
OF OR A FEW MORE FEET TO
ACTUALLY INTENDING TO BUILD.
RIGHT?
YEAH, I IT'S MORE THAT IF WE
STICK WITH THE SUPPLEMENTAL
THAT REQUIRE 20 PERCENT AND
YOU'VE GOT 40 SPACES THEN
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE TO HAVE
NINE IF THAT RUNS INTO YOUR
ELECTRICAL CHARGE.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE THAT CLEAR
TO EVERYONE IN OUR CALCULATION
SUPER GREAT.
SO THE ONLY OTHER THING THAT I
WOULD POINT OUT AND I'M NOT
SURE THAT BUT THIS RAISES TO
THE LEVEL OF PUBLIC BENEFIT IN
THE PRESENTATION IT WAS
HIGHLIGHTED THE PUBLIC ART
WHICH I THINK IS LOVELY.
I THINK THAT THAT COULD BE A
PUBLIC BENEFIT.
IT USED TO BE ON OUR LIST
OF PUBLIC BENEFITS.
IT'S NOT NECESSARILY ON THE
LIST RIGHT NOW OF PUBLIC
BENEFITS BUT I THINK IT COULD
BE LOVELY.
BUT I WANT TO I DON'T SEE THAT
IN THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGS OR IN
THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AND
THE QUESTION IS DO I MISS THAT
SOME OF OUR SUPPLEMENTAL REGS,
AS YOU POINTED OUT TONIGHT ARE
STILL CATCHING UP WITH SOME
OF OUR DESIGN REVISIONS ON THE
PROJECT DOCUMENTS AND I WOULD
BE HAPPY TO I CAN SHOW YOU THE
PROPOSED AREA THERE.
YOU CAN SEE IT UNDER THE
RESIDENTIAL PORCHES AND MEUS TO
THE LEFT AND IT'S PORTION AND
INTERNAL IT'S A OUTDOOR PUBLIC
SPACE AND THEN HERE IT'S
HIGHLIGHTED A LITTLE FURTHER.
SO WE WERE LOOKING AT A DOUBLE
HEIGHT WALL MURAL THAT FACES
CHURCH.
IT'S BEEN IN OUR PLAN A LONG
TIME.
I THINK WE'VE NEGLECTED TO
POINT THAT OUT TO OUR ATTORNEYS
PREPARING A SUPPLEMENTAL
REQUEST.
THANK YOU.
OH YEAH.
OF COURSE.
BUT FOR CLARIFICATION, IF THE
WORK FIRST HOUSE WORKFORCE
HOUSING IS PART OF THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMUNITY
PUBLIC BENEFIT AND IF SO WHERE
IS THE ADMINISTRATIVE BURDEN
OF IDENTIFYING AND CERTIFYING
TENANTS GOING TO LIE?
SO WE ARE PROPOSING TO HAVE SEX
HOUSING UNITS RENT LIMITED TO
THAT STANDARD FOR WORKFORCE
WHICH IS 80 PERCENT OF UNDER
THE CITY'S CURRENT DEFINITION
OF AFFORDABLE THAT DOESN'T FIT
BECAUSE YOU HAVE TO MAKE IT
AFFORDABLE.
SO IT'S IT'S AN ATTEMPT TO
ADDRESS A HOUSING MARKET THAT
ISN'T ADDRESSED ANYWHERE ELSE
IN THE CAR.
SO WE ARE VIEWING IT AS A
PUBLIC BENEFIT BECAUSE WE'RE
LIMITING IT TO PEOPLE WHO ARE
IN THE WORKFORCE AND THE CITY
HOUSING OFFICE CERTAINLY THE
COUNTY HOUSING OFFICE WOULD BE
PEOPLE THAT DO THE VETTING
OF THE APPLICATIONS QUALIFY
INDIVIDUALS AND TURNING OVER
THEIR NAMES TO THE CITY BE
MAINTAINING THE CENTRAL WAIT
LIST AND A CAPACITY THAT THE
COUNTY ALREADY HAS OR WORKS
WITH THE CITY OR WILL THAT BE A
NEW ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTION
THAT I CAN SOMEWHAT ADDRESS
THAT THE THE COUNTY DOES DO
MONITORING WORK.
THE CITY PAYS THE COUNTY TO DO
THIS WORK FOR US AND THEY'RE
ALL OF THEIR STANDARDS AND
PROCEDURES FOR LOW INCOME
HOUSING WHICH ARE SIX PERCENT
LESS WE DON'T HAVE THEY THEY
DON'T HAVE CURRENT PROCEDURES
OR PROCESS THEY WOULD BE ADDING
ON AND PLANNING MANAGERS INFORM
ME THAT THE CITY DOESN'T HAVE
THE RESOURCE OR EVEN THE
INTEREST IN COMING UP WITH A
PROGRAM SPECIFICALLY FOR THESE
80 PERCENT UNITS AND WE WOULD
WE WOULD HAVE TO READJUST OUR
FEE SCHEDULE AND PAYMENTS AND
CONTRACT WITH THEM TO DO THAT
MONITORING.
OK, AND THEN JUST A FOLLOW THAT
SO IS THE DEVELOPER PROPOSING
TO CONTRIBUTE TOWARDS THAT AND
THEN MY OTHER ACTUALLY SORRY
IGNORE THAT.
MY QUESTION WAS THAT IT DOES
INVOLVE OUR MONEY PROVISIONS TO
ENSURE THAT THESE ARE GOING TO
BE PAID IN PERPETUITY WORKFORCE
HOUSING OR IS THERE ANYTHING
LIKE A GUARANTEE OF THAT WE
HAVE A OR IS THERE A REASON WHY
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE
STRICTLY AFFORDABLE UNITS UNDER
SIX DAY AND I WE WOULD BE WE
WOULD BE OPEN TO THAT BEING
INCLUDED IN THAT I THINK IT IS
IN THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGS AND
THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AND
IS THERE A REASON WHY 60 AM I
OR OTHER LOW INCOME UNITS ARE
BEING CONSIDERED SO MAYBE YOU
HAVE TO FOLLOW THE BETTER
WITHIN CITIES ALREADY EXISTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AS A
DEATH I'M CERTAIN IN IN MANY
DISCUSSIONS WHICH WE DID HAVE
WITH JENNIFER HALL AND THE
COUNTY, WE SAW THAT AS A GAP IN
CURRENT NEED AND WE SAW AS
SOMETHING THAT COULD, YOU KNOW,
BENEFIT AS A COMMUNITY
COUNCIL
MEMBER THIS
SORRY SORRY
SOMETIMES THEY IS YOU THERE IS
REALLY A LOT IN THIS PROJECT IS
A VALUE AND THAT CONTRIBUTES TO
POLICY GOALS AND VALUES THAT
THAT WE HAVE
.
I AGREE ALSO WITH COMMISSIONER
MILLS THAT THE PROJECT IS NOT
OUT OF CHARACTER WHILE IT IS
SIGNIFICANTLY MORE DENSE THAN
THE EXISTING ZONING ALLOWS,
THIS AREA HAS BEEN
TRANSITIONING UNIVERSITY TOWERS
WHICH IS ACTUALLY A PRETTY OLD
BUILDING IS NINETEEN FLOORS AND
IT'S ABOUT A BLOCK A HALF AWAY
.
BUT THIS BUILDING IS
SIGNIFICANTLY LARGER THAN THE
SEVEN TWENTY ONE EXCUSE ME 721
SOUTH FOREST PROJECT THAT WE
APPROVED 721 WAS ELEVEN STOREY
PROJECT AT 290 THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET AND SEVEN CHURCH IS A
SEVENTEEN STOREY 404 THIRTY
FIVE A LITTLE BIT MORE THAN
FOUR HUNDRED AND FORTY FIVE
SQUARE FEET YOU OBVIOUSLY KNOW
THAT.
SO THERE IS A GREATER THERE IS
GOING TO BE A FEELING
OF GREATER MASS HERE AND I
THINK THAT WE I THINK THAT IT
IS OK TO ACKNOWLEDGE AND KEEP
THINGS IN PERSPECTIVE SO I, I
DON'T FEEL FULLY COMFORTABLE
WITH MAKING THE DENSITY
COMPARISON TO THE PREVIOUS
DOWNTOWN PREMIUM'S WHICH NOTE
THAT UNDER THOSE REGULATIONS IF
YOU PROVIDED TWENTY PERCENT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING WHICH IS
MORE THAN THIS PROJECT IS IS
PROVIDING YOU GET LESS THAN
DOUBLE THE DENSE DENSITY AND IF
YOU PROVIDED THIRTY PERCENT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING WHICH IS
TWICE WHAT THIS PROJECT IS
PROVIDING AND YOU WOULD GET
JUST OVER DOUBLE THE DENSITY
AND I'M NOT FULLY COMFORTABLE
WITH THAT BECAUSE NOTHING IS
BUILT UNDER THOSE REGULATIONS
AND SO AND YET 13 TIMES THE
DENSITY WHICH IS THE
CALCULATION THAT I GET NOT TEN
IF THE UNDERLYING IS TWENTY ONE
AND WHAT IS TO BE BUILT HERE IS
272 I THINK THAT'S BIGGER THAN
TEN.
THAT'S A THAT'S A BIG INCREASE
AND AS I SAY THIS IS A THIS IS
A BIGGER PROJECT THAN 720 AND
SO FORTH SO I AM
I AM ALSO LEFT
FEELING LIKE THERE NEEDS TO BE
MORE PUBLIC BENEFIT AND I
RECOGNIZE THAT THERE IS
SIGNIFICANT PUBLIC BENEFIT
HERE.
BUT IF I AM READING THE STAFF
REPORT CORRECTLY, WHILE WE CAN
BE THRILLED ABOUT THE FIFTEEN
PERCENT PAYMENT IN LIEU TO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND THAT'S
IN THE REGULATIONS SO WE CAN'T
COUNT IT AS A BENEFIT OR THE
REGULATIONS WOULD ASK US NOT TO
COUNT COUNT THAT AS A BENEFIT.
IS THAT WHAT YOUR TABLE SAYS
WAS AS A IN THE COULD DO YOU
HAVE YOU KNOW YEAH OK WELL
THANK
IS IT IS IT WORTH IT'S
WORTH ARE NUMBER FIVE IT'S
NUMBER FIVE I THINK THAT'S WHAT
YOU YEAH.
SO I MEAN IT JUST SAYS IT'S
REQUIRED.
YEAH BUT MEETING YEAH.
THANK YOU.
MEETING MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS
DOES NOT TRANSLATE INTO AN
AUTOMATIC JUSTIFICATION OF A
PROPOSAL SO UM HMM.
YES.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IS ALWAYS
APPRECIATED AND IS NECESSARY TO
ACHIEVING COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
GOALS BUT MEETING MINIMUM
REQUIREMENTS DOES NOT TRANSLATE
INTO AUTOMATIC JUSTIFICATION
OF A PROPOSAL.
SO I GUESS I HAVE A FEW
QUESTIONS FOR THE STATION AND
THEN I'LL JUST END WITH A
QUESTION TO STAFF WHICH IS IS
THERE ANY ARE THERE ANY
ADDITIONAL BENEFITS THAT FROM
STAFF PERSPECTIVE WOULD JUSTIFY
THE PD HERE?
I KNOW THAT STAFF HAS
SIGNIFICANT CONCERNS ABOUT THE
DENSITY INCREASE.
YOU DON'T LIKE THAT AND YOU
DIDN'T LIKE IT WHEN WE VOTED
FOR IT WITH SEVEN TWENTY ONE S
FOREST.
BUT I'M ALSO AWARE THAT WE HAVE
URGENT GOALS AND IT IS WITHIN
OUR DISCRETION TO SAY WE WANT
THOSE.
SO HOW CLOSE IS THIS PROJECT?
I KNOW YOU SAY THAT YOU'RE
INCORPORATING PASSIVE HOUSE
PRINCIPLES.
HOW CLOSE IS THIS GOING TO BE
TO NET ZERO?
I'D BE ONE QUESTION FOR ME
BECAUSE ALL ELECTRIC IS
FANTASTIC.
IT IS FANTASTIC SHOW THAT IT
CAN BE DONE IN A BUILDING
OF THIS SCALE BUT IT'S NOT THE
SAME AS NET ZERO AND THIS IS A
BIG BUILDING AND IT'S A LOT
OF HOUSING AND IT'S GOING TO BE
THERE FOR A LONG TIME AND SO
THAT IS I'M THAT IS A
CALCULATOR AND THAT IS ENTERING
INTO MY THINKING ABOUT THE
BENEFITS.
UM, THERE IS A NOTE OR A SIGNAL
IN THE STAFF REPORT TO FOR US
TO ASK ABOUT RENEWABLE ENERGY
KILOWATT HOURS IF YOU COULD SAY
ABOUT TELL US ABOUT THAT IN
OTHER WORDS.
YEAH.
SO HOW MUCH OF THIS IS BEING
ACHIEVED THROUGH CREDITS ALSO I
MEAN ARE THERE ARE YOU
OFFSETTING TO GET SOME OF YOUR
CALCULATIONS?
THAT'S A SEPARATE QUESTION FROM
RENEWABLE RENEWABLE ENERGY
KILOWATT HOURS.
OK, SO THOSE ARE THOSE ARE MY
THREE QUESTIONS HOW CLOSE TO
NET ZERO UM RENEWABLE ENERGY
KILOWATT HOURS ARE YOU USING?
ARE YOU BUYING CREDITS AS YOU
WERE IN THE SEVEN TWENTY ONE S
FIRST PROJECT AS WELL TO OFFSET
ENERGY USE AND THEN STAFF.
DO YOU HAVE A WISH LIST.
I KNOW IF I WAS CALLED IN OR WE
SAID JUST GIVE ME ONE MOMENT WE
HAVE SOME ARE SUSTAINABLE
CONSULTANTS COULDN'T BE HERE
TODAY BUT WE HAD APPLIED TO
HAVE THEM HERE ON LINE SO CHRIS
IS TRYING TO REACH THEM BY TEXT
OF THE SO YOU SEE QLOGIC I DID
NOT SEE ATTENDEE'S.
I'LL CHECK ONE MORE TIME YOU
HAVE TO ATTENDEE'S FROM DG AT
AT LEAST I'M NOT SEEING THEM
UNDER THE NAMES PROVIDED
MARKLIN OR MARINE NISSAN
THEY'RE NOT IF IF SHE'S THERE
HOLLAND WOULD WOULD HERE ARE
YOU REFERRING TO MARIE NISSAN.
YES THAT PERSON COULD JOIN AS
AN ATTENDEE AND I CAN PROMOTE
THEM AS SOON AS THEY JOIN IF
YOU WANT TO CIRCLE BACK TO THE
QUESTION CERTAINLY IS MARK
HOLLAND NO NEITHER.
OKAY.
THE ATTENDEES FROM THE ATTENDEE
LIST I RECEIVED TWO ARE
CURRENTLY JOINED ARE FROM DG TO
TWO PEOPLE.
OH I'M SORRY YOU ONE PERSON
FROM GEOTHERMAL INNOVATIONS AND
ONE PERSON FROM DG MARK.
IN THE MEANTIME I CAN JUST THE
STAFF DOES NOT HAVE A
PARTICULAR WISH LIST.
WE DON'T HAVE A PARTICULAR
WHISTLERS.
WE WE EVALUATED WHAT WAS WHAT
WAS PRESENTED AND WE AND OUR
CONCLUSION WAS THAT IT
CERTAINLY WARRANTED REZONING
BUT WE DO NOT THINK IT
WARRANTED THE THE SCALE AND
SCOPE NOW IT IT IS AN OPINION
IT IS BASED ON OUR FINDINGS.
THIS IS NOT THERE IS NO MAGIC
FORMULA.
THESE ARE THESE ARE THESE
BALANCE OF QUITE A VARIETY
OF FACTORS AND IT IS VERY
PLAUSIBLE THAT OTHERS ARRIVE AT
DIFFERENT OPINIONS.
THAT'S YES.
THANK YOU FOR SAYING THAT.
IT IS JUST THAT SINCE YOU MAKE
A STRONG STATEMENT THAT THIS
DOES NOT THE BENEFITS DO NOT
WARRANT THE DENSITY INCREASE
AND I AM LEANING TOWARD THAT.
I HOPED THAT YOU WOULD HAVE
PERHAPS SOME SUGGESTIONS AS TO
WHAT MIGHT WARRANT THE DENSITY
INCREASE SO THAT BECAUSE THERE
ARE MANY THINGS ABOUT THIS
PROJECT THAT I'D LIKE TO SEE
HAPPEN BUT I WOULD LOVE TO
OFFER SOME GUIDANCE FOR HOW
THIS COULD HAPPEN AS A PD SO
THAT WE GET ALL THOSE BENEFITS
BUT THAT WE ACTUALLY THAT THE
THE PROJECT IS BENEFICIAL.
IT CARRIES ENOUGH BENEFITS TO
WARRANT THIS INCREASE.
LET'S SO I WAS REALLY HOPING TO
ASK FOR YOUR EXPERTIZE I DO
KNOW THAT THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION IN THEIR COMMENT
SAID THAT IT MUST IT MUST BE A
NET ZERO PERFORMANCE STANDARD
AND THE COMMENTS REGARDING
COMPARING IT TO A REPEAL
DELETED STANDARD ARE VERY VALID
.
BUT THEY DO SPEAK TO WHAT WE
DID WHAT WERE OUR VALUES AND WE
WE ARE IN.
I WAS GOING TO SAY WE ARE IN
UNCHARTED TERRITORY.
WE ARE NOT IN UNCHARTED
TERRITORY BUT WE ARE TALKING
ABOUT DEVIATING FROM OUR
ESTABLISHED PLANS AND SO RATHER
THAN PULLING NUMBERS OUT OF THE
AIR AS A WAY TO COMPARE 20
PERCENT AFFORDABLE HOUSING WAS
IT WAS A NUMBER THAT WAS KICKED
AROUND 30 PERCENT WAS A NUMBER
THAT WAS KICKED AROUND AND SOME
OF THOSE OTHER STANDARDS WERE,
YOU KNOW, USED TO BE STANDARDS
AND SO AGAIN, RATHER THAN JUST
YOU KNOW, FOR ME TO SAY OH NO,
IT HAS TO BE SIX PERCENT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
I MERELY POINT OUT WHAT WERE
SOME FORMER BENCHMARKS AS JUST
A LITTLE BIT OF APPLES TO
APPLES.
THANK YOU.
THAT'S EXTREMELY HELPFUL AND IT
HELPS ME UNDERSTAND WHY YOU
CONSTRUCTED THE REPORT WITH
REFERENCE TO THE PREVIOUS
PREMIUM CALCULATOR.
AND MY ONLY FINAL POINT AND I
KNOW I'M BUTTING IN BUT ALL
OF THIS WAS BECAUSE WE ARE WE
DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER
RECOMMENDATION TO COMPARE TO IF
THE UNDERLYING ONLY WASN'T WAS
DIFFERENT IF WE OUR ANALYSIS
MIGHT BE VERY DIFFERENT IF THIS
WAS A DIFFERENT UNDERLYING
ZONING DESIGNATION BUT WITHOUT
IN THE ABSENCE OF A REVISED
FUTURE LAND USE MAP OR OR A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAT
CURRENTLY SPEAKS BROADLY ABOUT
YES.
INCREASED DENSITY BUT AS YOU
KNOW IT DOESN'T SAY INCREASED
DENSITY HERE AND NOT HERE
INCREASE EVERYWHERE.
SO WE ARE THERE IS WE ARE
ANTICIPATING WHAT MIGHT BE
ACCEPTABLE AND BUT OUR
ANTICIPATION ASSUMPTIONS MAY BE
DIFFERENT THAN OTHERS AND THEY
ALSO MAY BE DIFFERENT THAN WHAT
DOES PLAY OUT.
BUT WE HAVE TO WE ARE
EVALUATING EVALUATING THE
PETITION AS PRESENTED AND THE
THE CARDS THAT WE WERE DEALT.
THANK YOU.
IS THAT A DIRECT FROM YES.
OK, COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
AND THANK YOU I DON'T
APPRECIATE THIS PETITION.
I APPRECIATE ALL THE PUBLIC
COMMENTS.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THIS IS
VERY THOUGHTFUL ANALYSIS.
THIS WAS THE BEST REPORT I
THINK I'VE EVER READ AND THIS
IS ACTUALLY HOW I WANTED TO
START.
SO IT'S FUNNY THAT I ENDED I
WANTED TO ADDRESS THAT YOU DID
COMPARE IT TO PREVIOUS CODE A
COUPLE OF OUR CALLERS SAID THAT
IT WAS BASICALLY SHAMEFUL THAT
YOU QUOTED REPEALED CODE TO
JUSTIFY DENIAL AND I'M NOT
TRYING TO PUT WORDS IN YOUR
MOUTH.
I THINK YOU'RE JUST TRYING TO
SHOW THE COMPARISONS.
I THINK CALLING IT SHAMEFUL
AFTER ALL THE HARD WORK YOU DID
WAS INCREDIBLY UNACCEPTABLE.
WELL, COME ON, YOU DID A GREAT
JOB AND LIKE THAT'S NOT COOL.
AND I JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT
THAT REALLY OK, I'M JUST GOING
TO SAY A FEW THINGS
PROBABLY
MORE TOO I KNOW YOU DO.
SO I DO LIKE A LOT ABOUT THIS I
DO SORT OF THINK IT'S TOO TALL
BUT I ALSO VERY MUCH THINK THAT
THIS SITE MERITS MORE DENSITY
AND I DO APPRECIATE A STEP BACK
ATTEMPT TO THE SELF BUT I AGREE
THAT THIS DOESN'T FEEL LIKE A
PARTY TO ME.
I OBVIOUSLY DIDN'T THINK IN
TWENTY ONE SO FAR SHOULD HAVE
BEEN A EITHER AND I'M JUST
AGAIN WORRIED ABOUT THE
PRECEDENT THAT WE'RE SETTING
AND I THINK IT'S CRITICALLY
IMPORTANT.
I KNOW THAT THE MONEY FOR THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING CONTRIBUTION
IS A LOT AND I KNOW THAT BUT
I'LL LOOSELY QUOTE THE MOST
AMAZING STUFF I'VE EVER READ
DETAILS AND CONTEXT DO MATTER.
I'M JUST GOING TO GET INTO SOME
SPECIFIC QUESTIONS AND I KNOW
WE'RE TRYING TO GET SOMEBODY ON
TO TALK ABOUT KILOWATT HOURS.
THE THERE ARE SOME
DISCREPANCIES.
I JUST WANT TO POINT THEM OUT
TO MAKE SURE BECAUSE WHEN I
READ THIS IN THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT IT SAID ONE HUNDRED
KILOWATT HOURS PER YEAR AND
THAT HAD TO HAVE BEEN A TYPO
BECAUSE MY GUESS BECAUSE THAT'S
LIKE NOTHING ELSE.
I AM ALSO CURIOUS LIKE WHAT IS
THE PROJECTED LOAD PER BUILDING
AND PER UNIT?
WHAT IS THE PROJECTED OFFSET
WITH YOUR SOLAR ARRAY?
I DON'T KNOW WHO THIS QUESTION
IS TO ON YOUR TEAM BUT YOU'VE
TALKED A LOT ABOUT PASSIVE
HOUSE.
I'M JUST CURIOUS WHAT ARE THE
TECHNOLOGIES THAT YOU'RE
REFERENCING AND WHAT IS THE
TARGET HERE CHANGES PER HOUR
THAT YOU'RE TRYING TO ACHIEVE?
IS THAT A QUESTION FOR THE
PERSON THAT'S TRYING TO CALL IN
AND MAYBE A QUESTION FOR ONE
OF THEM THAT'S ALREADY ON WITH
THERE WAS A NEW CALLER SENDING
IN PHONE NUMBER TWO SEVEN NINE
.
IS THAT YOUR TEAM MEMBER?
YEP, EIGHT TO SEVEN.
IT ONLY SHOWS ME THE FINAL
THREE.
CAN YOU IDENTIFY WHO IT IS?
YES, SORRY.
THAT'S WITH US.
EQUALLOGIC TEAM MEMBER WITH YOU
PSYCHOLOGIC GEAR UNROOTED I
GUESS JUST A PHONE NUMBER AND
JUST THE LAST THREE THINK
THEY'RE SAYING OH YEAH I'M IN
ON THIS THAT PHONE NUMBER THE
JOINT HAS PERMISSION TO SPEAK
SO MARK MARK MARJOLEIN MARK ARE
YOU THERE ARE YOU THERE?
ERIC SAID THAT THEY MUTE IT CAN
BE TRICKY JOINING BY PHONE AS
IT'S THE LINK WAS PROVIDED TO
ALL PETITIONER'S RESUME STAFF
SIX OK SO OH THERE'S MARK.
YEAH.
YEP YEP.
HIPPOCAMPI.
SO MARK WE HAD A QUESTION FROM
COMMISSIONER TELL ME IF I GET
THIS WRONG HOW FAR AWAY IS OUR
BUILDING FROM MEETING STANDARDS
THAT WOULD BE CALLED NET ZERO.
YEAH WELL GOING TO THE DESIGN
THAT WE YOU KNOW WE HEARD ABOUT
THAT AND YOU KNOW WE'RE IN THAT
WE'RE THE TARGET THE BUILDING
WE WENT THROUGH AND TRIED TO,
YOU KNOW, PROVIDE YOU KNOW, THE
WE LOOK YOUNGER, EFFICIENT
QUALITY AND SO WE WHAT IS YOUR
YOU KNOW, WE GET THE WE'RE DONE
WE GOT THE THE WE WE DO EACH
COMPONENT.
WE'RE LOOKING AT THE CONTENT.
WHAT ABOUT THE AND WE'RE YOU
KNOW, I THINK IT WOULD BE
WITHIN THE CONSTRAINTS OF THE
WE DID A ELEMENT OF THE MARK.
IS THERE A MEASURE THAT YOU CAN
SPEAK TO THAT THAT SHOWS AN
INCORRECT IN TERMS OF PROXIMITY
TO MEETING THAT GOAL THAT ONE
TO DO WITH THE OTHER?
SO YOU KNOW, WE JUST HAVE TO GO
WITH WHAT WE CALL WHAT AND THEN
WE JUST TRY TO DO WHAT WE CAN
AND IN IN IN PREVIOUS
CONVERSATIONS AND OUR TARGET
WAS TO TRY TO GET TO TWENTY
THREE WHICH WE SAW AS REALISTIC
I BELIEVE NET ZERO IS ACTUALLY
SUB TWENTY OR AROUND TWENTY FOR
ENERGY INTENSITY SO WE'RE
NARROWING DOWN ON IT BUT WE'RE
NOT QUITE THERE.
GOT EACH OTHER THAT WILL
INDICATE THAT WE CAN DO WITH
OUR QUESTION WHAT WE'RE LOOKING
AT THAT WE CAN'T DO ANY MORE
YOU WELL OBVIOUSLY WE DON'T
HAVE WE HAVE A LIMITED SPACE TO
DO THE YEAR WE HAVE YOU YOU
KNOW, LIKE BUILD A LOT
OF PEOPLE ARE PROBABLY BEFORE
WE ENTER ON THAT WE'RE PATCHETT
THANK YOU.
AND THEN COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT, IF YOU WANTED TO
ASK THE QUESTION WITH RESPECT
TO THE LONG HOURS.
YEAH.
SO THE ABLE THE TYPE IN THE
LAST ITERATION WITH OUR SOLAR
CONSULTANT, THEY WERE ABLE TO
GET OUR ONSITE GENERATION UP TO
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY FIVE
KILOWATT HOURS AND SO IT'S NOT
THAT'S BETTER THAN ONE HUNDRED
ZERO.
YEAH I FIGURED IT HAD TO BE BUT
YOU KNOW THAT'S AN INTERESTING
RESPONSE TO XEROX NOW I'M
WONDERING WHAT HOW COULD YOU
GET LIKE WHAT WOULD THE DENSITY
NEED TO BE TO GET TO NET ZERO
LIKE DO WE BRING IT DOWN FIVE
STORIES JUST CURIOUS THE
PASSIVE HOUSE QUESTION I'M
STILL ALSO WONDERING ABOUT I
DON'T KNOW IF BARAK COULD SPEAK
TO THE ENVELOPE DESIGN IN THE
THERMAL RAP NATURE OF THE
CONSTRUCTION.
WELL, WHEN WE LOOK AT BUILDINGS
IN THE CONTEXT OF HOW WE REDUCE
THEIR APPETITE FOR THE USE
OF ENERGY, CLEARLY IT IS THE
SKIN UNDER ROOF WHICH WE SPEND
THE MOST TIME MAKING SURE THAT
WE HAVE A FIRST A REALLY TIGHT
MBALO.
AND OF COURSE THE CHALLENGE
THERE IS LOOKING THE WINDOW TO
WALL CONNECTION BECAUSE THAT'S
WHERE WE GET THE MOST
FILTRATION AND SECONDLY HOW WE
GET THE MOST EFFICIENT WHEN
THAT WE COULD AFFORD FOR THE
PRODUCT AND THAT'S WHERE WE ARE
AT THIS MOMENT EVALUATING WITH
THE CONTRACTOR AND ALL THE
SYSTEMS THAT WE COULD UTILIZE
FOR THIS BUILDING.
SO OUR EMPHASIS IS GOING TO BE
TO IMPROVE THAT ENVELOPE MORE
THAN ANYTHING ELSE IN ORDER TO
ACHIEVE IT.
THE CHALLENGE THAT WE'RE
HEARING FROM ALL THE ENGINEERS
AND THE PEOPLE PROVIDING THE
SERVICES TO THE BUILDING IS
THAT OPTIMIZING ALL THE
UTILITIES OR SERVICES THAT WE
COULD GET AND TRYING TO FIND A
BALANCE THAT ALLOWS US TO HAVE
A SUSTAINABILITY MATRIX AT ITS
HIGHEST CHALLENGING.
BUT THAT'S YOU KNOW AND THAT'S
WHY WE EMPLOY A LOT OF PEOPLE
TO EVALUATE THOSE THINGS AND
PRESENT TO A CLIENT THE BEST
OPTION FOR US TO MAKE SOME
DECISIONS.
ARE YOU OK?
THANK YOU.
AND THEN I HAVE ANOTHER
QUESTION ABOUT THE WORKFORCE
HOUSING UNITS AS WELL.
SO I WAS A LITTLE UNCLEAR MAYBE
I BLACKED OUT.
SO I UNDERSTAND THE COUNTY IS
GOING TO THE COUNTY'S DATABASE
TO EVALUATE ALL THAT.
HOW IS THE CITY INVOLVED?
AND IT'S ALSO MAYBE THIS IS
WHAT I THINK I BLACKED OUT.
DOES THE CITY NEED THE COUNTY
IS HELPING MANAGE THE PROCESS.
DOES THE CITY STILL NEED
INVOLVEMENT IN SOME WAY
?
I AM I SOMETIMES PRETEND TO BE
AN ENGINEER.
SOMETIMES I GET HIRED TO BE A
TRAFFIC ENGINEER.
DO NOT PRETEND TO BE A
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT OFFICER.
BUT WHAT I DO UNDERSTAND IS
THAT THE THE FOUR UNITS WITHIN
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
PARTICULARLY WHEN THEY MAY BE
SOMEHOW PART OF A CITY PROGRAM
THE CITY BUT WE DON'T HAVE A
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT.
WE DO HAVE A HOUSE HOUSING
COMMISSION BUT THE COUNTY HAS
THE STAFF AND SO THE CITY HAS A
CONTRACT.
THE CITY PAYS THE COUNTY TO
MAINTAIN THE LIST TO DO
WHATEVER INCOME QUALIFICATIONS
AND ARE NECESSARY.
BUT THEIR PROCESS IS FOR LOW
INCOME HOUSING UNITS WHICH ARE
60 PERCENT AM I OR LESS IF THEY
WERE I'M ASSUMING IT WOULD BE
INTRODUCING AN ENTIRELY NEW
PROCESS IF THEY WERE TO REVIEW
BASED ON DIFFERENT STANDARDS
THE 80 PERCENT AM I THEY MAY SO
WE MAY BE ASKING THEM TO
MAINTAIN TWO LISTS NOW I DON'T
QUITE KNOW THE FULL SCOPE BUT I
CAN CERTAINLY GET MORE DETAILS
PERHAPS I MEAN MAYBE POSTPONING
THIS PROJECT IS CORRECT.
I DON'T KNOW BUT I CAN
CERTAINLY GET MORE DETAILS BUT
I BELIEVE THIS THE JUST THIS IS
SUPER IN THE WEEDS BUT LIKE FOR
THESE SIX UNITS WITH THE CITY
YOU HAVE TO BE PAYING THE
COUNTY MORE TO ME IS IT LIKE
PER UNIT OR IS IT JUST LIKE WE
GIVE YOU AN ANNUAL FEE TO
MAINTAIN A LIST FOR ALL OF THE
THAT PART?
I DON'T KNOW.
ARE YOU ARE YOU MR. I THINK YOU
SAID THAT YOU GUYS ARE WORKING
WITH THE COUNTY TO GO THROUGH
THIS BUT NOW I'M HEARING THAT
THERE MIGHT TWO DIFFERENT
LIVES.
THEY KNOW THAT YOU WANT THESE
TO EIGHTY PERCENT ANYWAY THEY
DO THAT WE'VE HAD A COUPLE
OF MEETINGS IN THE AND JENNIFER
HALL IN
CITY'S HOUSING OFFICE
HAS BEEN PART OF THOSE
MEETINGS.
I WAS LEFT WITH THE IMPRESSION
THAT THEY WERE TO GET
CANDIDATES WHO MAY HAVE
SUBMITTED FOR THE SIXTY PERCENT
PROGRAM WHO DIDN'T QUALIFY
BECAUSE THEY WERE THAT HARD.
MAYBE I MISUNDERSTOOD.
I WASN'T THEY DIDN'T SAY THAT
OH GEE, THAT'S GOING TO BE A
WHOLE PROGRAM.
I JUST SAID, WELL, WE WANT TO
RUN THE SCREENING PROCESS WE DO
FOR THE SIXTY THERE IS A MIX
OF I DON'T KNOW IF THERE WAS A
COUNT THAT I MUST BE A MIX
OF DIFFERENT NUMBER OF BEDROOMS
IN THIS BUILDING.
SO WORKFORCE TO GO ON STRIKE.
THAT'S RIGHT.
OK, AND THOSE WOULD BE THOSE
WOULD ROTATE WITH AVAILABILITY
WITH MAINTAIN THAT THE SIXTH
THE NUMBER OF SIX AND THEY
WOULD ALSO THEY COULD BE
INTEGRATED INTO THE TOWN OF UM
I THINK I LEAVE IT AT THAT FOR
NOW BUT I'M CURIOUS HOW YOU
CAME UP WITH THAT CALCULATION
OF THREE HUNDRED AND SOMETHING
UNITS WITH SIX MILLION DOLLARS
BECAUSE THE AVALON PROJECT IS
LIKE TWENTY ONE MILLION DOLLARS
FOR FIFTY YEARS ANOTHER.
YEAH.
COMMISSIONER WHITE'S PLACE SO I
WANTED TO GO BACK TO THE
CONVERSATION THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER STARTED WHEN SHE ASKED
ABOUT THE STANDARDS FOR THE
REVIEWING OF THE PUBLIC
BENEFITS OF A PUDI SO I AM
USING THE EIGHTH EDITION OF THE
UDC FEBRUARY TWENTY SIX TWENTY
TWENTY THREE I IN SECTION FIVE
TWENTY NINE ELEVEN SECTION F
OF THAT SECTION GET LISTS A B C
D E F G SEVEN CRITERIA FOR OUR
REVIEW IS THIS WHAT IS BEING
USED TO DETERMINE THE PUBLIC
BENEFIT OR IS THERE AN
ADDITIONAL THIS CAN YOU ANSWER
JUST FOR UM OF I WILL PULL IT
UP BUT FIVE TWENTY NINE ELEVEN
F IF THE TITLE IS REVIEW
QUITING STANDARDS FOR ZONING
DISTRICT REVIEW THAT'S OK.
SO THEN THERE SECTION ONE AND
THEN SECTION ONE IS SEVEN
SUBSECTIONS OF WHICH THE OPEN
SPACE EMPLOYMENT AND SHOPPING
OPPORTUNITIES THE USE AND REUSE
OF EXISTING SITES AND BUILDINGS
,THE ECONOMY AND EFFICIENT USE
OF LAND USE.
SO WE'RE GETTING 13 TIMES
THANKS COMMISSIONER DISH THE
DENSITY IN A ONE ACRE LOT SO
THAT LIKE WHEN I WENT THROUGH
AND MATCHED UP WITH THIS
DEVELOPMENT WAS I GOT A TABLE
THAT IT MAPS ALMOST DIRECTLY TO
THE STANDARD SO NINE POINT
EIGHT PERCENT OPEN SPACE WHICH
MATCHES TO S.C. SIX POINT THREE
TO THE EXPANSION OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING TWO HUNDRED AND SEVENTY
UNITS TO THE ECONOMY AND
EFFICIENCY IN THE PROVISION
OF PUBLIC SERVICES, UTILITIES
AND LAND USE.
RIGHT.
BUT I'M HEARING DIFFERENTLY NOW
THAT THOSE BENEFITS ARE NOT
ACTUALLY BENEFITS I CAN SPEAK
TO STAFF'S OPINION, UM,
PROVIDING AFFORDABLE HOUSING IS
A PUBLIC BENEFIT BUT THERE ALSO
IS THE STANDARD FOR PROJECTS
THAT A TWENTY FIVE PERCENT IS
THE OVERUNDER.
RIGHT THAT AH I SEE THAT THEY
MUST PROVIDE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AND IN IN MY ART REVIEW OF OF
THE ENTIRE SOUP TO NUTS
PROVIDING FIFTEEN PERCENT AND
AS YOU NOTICE THERE'S NO
SCALING THEN IT S SO PERHAPS
THEORETICALLY THEY COULD
PROVIDE ONE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
UNIT AND CHECK THAT BOX AND
THEY ARE PROVIDING BUT THE IN
ADDITION TO PROVIDING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AS ONE
OF THE POSSIBLE BENEFICIAL
EFFECTS OF THE ZONING
DESIGNATION PROJECTS THAT
EXCEED THE UNDERLYING DENSITY
OR THE MASTER PLAN
RECOMMENDATION BECAUSE WE WILL
GIVE CREDIT TO FOLKS WHO ARE
MEETING THE MASTER PLAN
RECOMMENDATION NEED TO ALSO
PROVIDE AFFORDABLE HOUSING AS
PART OF THAT THAT OFFSET.
SO THE STAFF'S OPINION THAT
THAT 15 PERCENT PROBABLY FULLY
SUPPORTS A MUCH SMALLER
PROJECT, MAYBE A PROJECT THAT
WAS SIX STOREYS BECAUSE THE
UNDERLYING DENSITY IS OUR
FORESI WITH A 30 FOOT HEIGHT
LIMIT AND TWENTY UNITS PER ACRE
BUT THEY ARE MEETING THAT THEY
ARE MEETING THE THEY ARE
PROVIDING A PUBLIC BENEFIT
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND THEY
ARE MEETING THE REQUIREMENT
OF FIFTEEN PERCENT BECAUSE THEY
ARE PROPOSING AN INCREASE.
BUT IT WAS STAFF'S CONCLUSION
THAT THIS DOESN'T BALANCE WITH
THE SCOPE AND THE SCALE OF WHAT
THEY'RE ASKING FOR IN TOTALITY
NOT IN THE ABSENCE OF ANY OTHER
RECOMMENDATION.
THERE'S NO FURTHER GUIDANCE IN
ANY OF OUR PLANNING DOCUMENTS
BUT WE DON'T GET THE KIND
OF CAN WE CAN I HAVE A FOLLOW
UP BUT WE'RE NOT NOW THAT WE'VE
TAKEN OUT.
SO IF THIS WAS D ONE IN ORDER
FOR THEM SORT OF USING THE
PREVIOUS REPEALED CODE IN ORDER
FOR THEM TO GET SOME OF THE
DATE THAT THEY WANTED, THEY
WOULD HAVE HAD TO HIT CERTAIN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PREMIUMS.
THEY WOULD HAVE HAD TO HIT THE
SUSTAINABILITY PREMIUMS IN
ORDER TO GET THOSE THINGS NOW
THAT THAT'S BEEN REPEALED, ALL
WE'RE LOOKING AT IS FLOOR AREA
RATIO AND THE HEIGHT
RESTRICTION.
BUT BECAUSE IT'S A D IT DOESN'T
HAVE THAT SO WE'RE NOT LIKE
BEING ABLE TO DO A D ONE APPLES
TO APPLES BECAUSE THE PDS IS
ITS OWN ZONING.
SO IT'S IT'S COMPLETELY
CONSTRUCTED AS WE YOU KNOW,
SORT OF APPROVE IT.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO CAN YOU HAVE
A DIFFERENT OPINION THAN
MYSELF?
NO, I'M JUST TRYING I'M REALLY
TRYING TO VERIFY THIS IS NOT
THIS BECAUSE I'VE ALREADY
ADDRESSED THE OBJECTION THAT I
HAVE WITH STAFF SO I JUST SORT
OF LIKE OH THIS MAKES NO SENSE.
SO I TALK TO MY COUNCIL MEMBER.
I TALK TO OTHER CITY STAFF
MEMBERS TO TRY TO UNDERSTAND
HOW STAFF GOT TO THIS POSITION
TO TRY TO SORT OF MAKE THAT
WORK.
THAT'S NOT WHAT I'M ASKING.
I THINK WHAT I'M ASKING IS WHEN
COMMISSIONER SAID THAT THIS
DOES NOT MEET THE STANDARD OF A
COMMUNITY BENEFIT FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING THAT WAS
CONFUSING FOR ME BECAUSE I'M
LOOKING AT SECTION FIVE TWENTY
ELEVEN FOR ONE THAT WOULD SEEM
TO SAY IT IS A BENEFIT AND SO
I'M JUST TRYING TO GET CLARITY
ON WHETHER IT IS OR IS NOT.
THAT'S THE CRITERIA THAT WE'RE
USING THAT'S I I'M HOPEFULLY
THAT IS CLEAR NOW.
SURE COUNCIL WELL I WOULD ALSO
LIKE TO CLARIFY I'M SORRY IF I
DIDN'T SPEAK CLEARLY NORMALLY I
WRITE MY THOUGHTS AND I DIDN'T
HAVE TIME TO DO THAT TODAY MY
STATEMENT WAS THAT WHAT I
UNDERSTOOD FROM THE STAFF
REPORT WAS THAT GIVEN THE
INCREASE IN DENSITY THE
BENEFITS WERE NOT SUFFICIENT TO
WARRANT SUCH A LEAP.
AND MY STATEMENT WAS THAT MY
UNDERSTANDING WAS THAT MEETING
THE THAT PROVIDING THE MINIMUM
REQUIRED WOULD NOT JUST FIRE AS
GREAT AN INCREASE IN DENSITY AS
WAS ASKED FOR BY THIS PROJECT.
I BELIEVE THAT I STARTED OUT
WHAT I SAID ABOUT THIS PROJECT
NOTING THAT IT HAS MANY
BENEFITS AND THAT I APPRECIATE
THE PROVISION OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
I MEAN THE PAYMENT IN LIEU TO
THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND.
SO I DON'T WANT TO BE
MISUNDERSTOOD AS HAVING SAID
THAT THE PAYMENT TO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND WAS NOT
A BENEFIT HAPPY TO CLARIFY.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER WAGE.
ALL RIGHT.
SO HOW DID I GET TO 350 UNITS?
I LOOKED AT THE MATH SO WHEN
ONE TWENTY ONE CATHERINE RUNS
THEY TAKE ONE POINT TWO MILLION
DOLLARS FROM THE MILITARY FUND
AND THEN THEY USE APPROXIMATELY
THIRTEEN MILLION HITECH TO GET
TO THAT.
SO I'M USING THAT COUPLINGS.
SO WHEN GENERAL HALL SPOKE AT
THE HOUSING WEEK FORUM THAT I
MODERATED, ONE OF THE THINGS HE
SAID VERY CLEARLY IS SHE
DOESN'T WANT DEVELOPERS TO
BUILD AFFORDABLE HOUSING
BECAUSE IT DOES NOT WORK FOR
PEOPLE WHO ARE ON THE WAITING
LIST FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING, DO
NOT WANT TO LIVE IN SOME
OF THESE DEVELOPMENTS BECAUSE
THEY DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO THE
RESOURCES AND THE SUPPORT
OF SERVICES THAT THEY NEED.
PLUS YOU'RE USING LEASING
AGENTS SO YOU DON'T HAVE BUILT
IN SUPPORT SERVICES INSIDE THE
DWELLING AND WHICH SHE WOULD
PREFER IS THAT SHE GETS THE
MONEY AND SHE SAID IT SO
CLEARLY, SO STRAIGHTFORWARDLY
AND SO THAT'S THAT'S THE OTHER
SIDE OF WHAT I AM WRESTLING
WITH BECAUSE AS I LOOK AT THIS
PROJECT, IF IF IT COMES TO
FRUITION IT'S GOING TO INCREASE
IT HAS THE POTENTIAL
OF INCREASING OUR SUPPLY
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING UP TO
THREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY UNITS.
AND THE THING I AM ABSOLUTELY
STRUGGLING WITH HERE AT THIS
TABLE IS WE JUST HEARD FROM OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN CONSULTANTS
AS YOU KNOW AND THEY HAVE SAID
AND WE NEED TO LET EVERYONE
KNOW ONE CITY COUNCIL HAS
ALREADY SAID THAT WE'RE DENSIFY
THE CITY BECAUSE THAT IS A
REQUIREMENT OF THE
PLAN IS THAT
THEY ARE GOING TO BRING A
REPORT BACK THAT SAYS HOW DO WE
INCREASE DENSITY?
THAT'S NUMBER ONE NUMBER TWO OR
NINETY FOUR THOUSAND JOBS IN
OUR CITY AND SEVENTY SIX
THOUSAND PEOPLE COMMUTE INTO
OUR CITY TO FULFILL THOSE JOBS.
WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH RESIDENTS
IN THE CITY TO FILL THE JOBS
THAT WE HAVE IN THE CITY
BECAUSE WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH
HOUSING FOR THOSE INDIVIDUALS
TO LIVE IN THE CITY.
SO WE NEED TO BUILD MORE
HOUSING NOT IN THE ABSTRACT BUT
ACROSS THE ENTIRE BOARD ALL
KINDS OF EVERYWHERE AND WE
DON'T HAVE THE LAND TO DO ALL
THE DEVELOPMENT THAT WE WANT.
SO WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO TAKE
SIDES LIKE THIS ONE, CONVERT
THESE SITES TO BUILD HOUSING.
SO I RECOGNIZE THAT THE THE
OUTDATED 15 YEARS NOW PLAN
DOESN'T ACCOUNT FOR THIS BUT
THIS IS THE SPACE ON THE THANK
YOU COMMISSIONER WAITZ.
AND I THINK EVERYONE'S HAD A
CHANCE TO SPEAK.
SO I'LL I'LL CHIME IN.
YEAH, I'LL CHIME IN WITH MY
THOUGHTS.
UM, FIRST OFF SAY THANK YOU TO
THE PETITIONERS FOR BRINGING
THIS FORWARD.
I THINK SO MUCH CARE AND
EXPERTIZE HAS GONE TO THE
DESIGN THE MATERIALITY USING
THE STEP DOWN TO CREATE AGAIN
THE KIND OF AN URBAN SHAPE AS
WELL AS JUST AGAIN THE PUBLIC
ART THE WAY IT INTERACTS WITH
THE ACTUAL I WALK THIS BLOCK
MANY, MANY TIMES WHEN I WAS A
STUDENT SO UM SO I REALLY DO
APPRECIATE I ACTUALLY THINK
THAT THIS IS ACTUALLY A WELL
DESIGNED BUILDING SO THE
VARIETY IN DESIGN MEETS THAT
STANDARD ACHIEVE ECONOMY AND
EFFICIENCY OF LAND USE.
YES, ABSOLUTELY.
ENCOURAGE THE PROVISION
OF PUBLIC SERVICES AND
UTILITIES AND PROVIDING
ADEQUATE HOUSING OPPORTUNITY
SUITED TO THE NEEDS OF THE
RESIDENTS OF THE CITY WHICH
INCLUDES STUDENTS.
SO THAT'S YEP.
MEETS THAT STANDARD THE ONE
THAT I'M CURRENTLY AND I THINK
THAT THIS IS WHERE WE'RE ALL
KIND OF A LITTLE BIT STUCK.
THERE'S THERE'S TWO ONE ZONING
DISTRICT THE PUDI SHALL NOT BE
ALLOWED WHERE IT'S PRIMARILY TO
VOID IN POSITIONS OF STANDARDS
AND REQUIREMENT OF OTHER ZONING
CLASSIFICATIONS.
SO THAT'S THE ONE THAT I'M KIND
OF GRAPPLING WITH STILL I THINK
AGAIN I THINK ALL OF US LIKE
THIS PRODUCT.
THERE'S SO MANY GOOD THINGS
ABOUT THIS ELEMENT.
UM, I HAVE A CLARIFICATION
QUESTION TO MR LEO.
WE HAVE A MASSING WE HAVE AN
OVERLAY DISTRICT FOR SOUTH
UNIVERSITY AND SO I THINK ALL
OF US HERE AGREE THAT LIKE
CAMPUS IS EXPANDING WHEN YOU
LOOK AT THAT INTERFACE REPORT
FROM 1970 TO NOW STUDENTS
REPRESENT ACTUALLY AT 80
PERCENT OF THE INCREASE IN
POPULATION OVERALL.
SO I MEAN THAT'S WHY WE SEE
THESE HIGH RISES STUDENT
POPULATION HAS GROWN AT A MUCH
FASTER CLIP THAN ACTUAL JUST
PERMANENT RESIDENTS AND YOU SEE
THAT REFLECTED IN OUR
DEMOGRAPHIC THE WAY IT'S
CHANGED FROM THE SEVENTIES.
SO I WANTED TO TALK REALLY
QUICKLY ABOUT THE SOUTH
UNIVERSITY OVERLAY DISTRICT
WHICH HAS A MASSING ACTUAL
LIMITATION OF ONE HUNDRED AND
FIFTY FEET AND HOW THAT
BOUNDARY IT'S DRAWN AND AGAIN
LIKE THE CURRENT STANDARD THAT
OVERLAY DISTRICT IS WHERE IT IS
CURRENTLY AND UNFORTUNATELY
WE'RE ADMINISTRATORS WE'RE NOT
LEGISLATORS HERE.
RIGHT.
WE'RE HERE TO ADMINISTER WHAT
WE SEE BASED ON WHAT WE HAVE.
SO AS S UNIVERSITY OVERLAY
DISTRICT, CAN YOU TALK TO ME A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT BACKGROUND AND
INTENT?
UM, I'M GOING TO BE BRIEF IN MY
ZONING LECTURE.
UM, WE I ESTIMATE MIGHT HAVE
BEEN LIKE ABOUT A FIVE YEAR
PROCESS BUT WE STARTED BUT THE
CITY UNDERTOOK A MULTI-YEAR
PROCESS TO EVALUATE THE
PREVIOUS DOWNTOWNS CALLED THAT
PROJECT R2 D2 FOR ANN ARBOR
DISCOVERING DOWNTOWN AND WE
ENDED UP CONSOLIDATING ALL
OF THE ZONING DISTRICTS THAT
WERE OUT THERE INTO TWO AND WE
CREATED A D ONE DOWNTOWN CORE
AND D TO DOWNTOWN INTERFACE.
AND IF YOU LOOK AT A ZONING MAP
A LITTLE BIT LIKE A DONUT THAT
WAS INTENTIONAL THERE'S THE
CORE D ONE AND THEN SURROUNDING
IT IS D TWO AND S YOU IS
PHYSICALLY DISCONNECTED FROM
THE OTHER PARTS OF DOWNTOWN.
THE DIAG SEPARATES IT BUT THERE
WAS A COMMERCIAL DISTRICT RIGHT
ON OUT TO YOU.
IT'S BEEN THERE FOR MORE THAN
100 YEARS SO IT AND IT WAS ONE
OF THE ZONING THAT ONE OF THE
DOWNTOWN ZONING DISTRICTS SO IT
GOT TRANSFORMED FROM WHATEVER
IT WAS ZONED TO SOME D ONE AND
D TO AND IT HAS A MUCH SMALLER
INTERFACE AREA IF YOU LOOK AT
THE ZONING MAP AND THE DURING
THAT PROCESS PART OF IT MY
MEMORY'S ONLY PART OF IT I WAS
NOT INVOLVED BUT THE ACTUAL
LINE BETWEEN WHICH PROPERTY
SHOULD BE D1 AND D2 WAS DONE
PRACTICALLY PARCEL BY PARCEL.
THE D1 AND D2.
LET ME SUM UP D ONE AND D TO
REGULATE THE SO WE HAVE A QUASI
FORM BASED ZONING AND THE D
WANTED TO BASE ZONING DISTRICTS
REGULATE THE PERMITTED USES AND
THE CORE GETS A LITTLE BIT MORE
INTENSE USES.
FOR EXAMPLE ELTER OUR GENERAL
ENTERTAINMENT IS BY RIGHT IN
THE D ONE.
IT'S A SPECIAL EXCEPTION USING
THE D TO BECAUSE TO IS CLOSER
TO RESIDENTIAL ARE SUPPOSED TO
BE BUT AND IT DID REGULATE THE
FA SO IT GAVE WHAT YOU'RE
PERMITTED TO DO AND HOW MUCH
OF IT YOU COULD DO AND THEN
THERE ARE CHARACTER AREAS AND
THOSE ARE BASED ON THE
CHARACTER AND THOSE BOUNDARIES
ARE DIFFERENT THAN THE D ONE
OF THE D YEAH THAT'S MORE OF OF
THE THE VISUAL AND THE PHYSICAL
CHARACTER AND THAT REGULATES
THE SIZE AND THE SHAPE OF THE
PERMITTED USES AND HOW MUCH
OF THEM YOU CAN DO.
AND SO THE D ONE THE S
UNIVERSITY CHARACTER AREA IN D
ONE THAT HEIGHT LIMIT IS ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY FEET IT IS
LOWER THAN THE HEIGHT LIMIT
OF MAIN STREET BECAUSE THAT S
UNIVERSITY CHARACTER WAS MUCH
LOWER AT THE TIME IN 2009
OF THE 2D PROJECT.
I THINK HE WAS BASICALLY
ENTIRELY TWO STORIES EXCEPT FOR
TOWER PLAZA OR FOURTH TAKE YOU
GO AND EVERY TIME AND D TO THE
D TO S TO UNIVERSAL SIXTY FEET
THAT SOMEWHAT UNIVERSAL FOUR D
TO CARRY DRUGS.
BUT THAT'S THAT'S THE GIST.
BUT IT WAS PARCEL BY PARCEL.
WHAT KIND OF CHARACTER IS IT IS
IT A CORE CHARACTER OR
INTERFACE CHARACTER.
GOT IT.
THANK YOU FOR THE CLARIFICATION
.
PART OF WHY I ASK THAT QUESTION
IS AGAIN D ONE BEING KIND
OF THE DOWNTOWN CORE D TWO WITH
KIND OF THE INSULATING LAYER
WITH RESPECT TO CREATING KIND
OF A STEP DOWN RIGHT FROM ONE
HUNDRED TO SIXTY OR ONE HUNDRED
FIFTY IN THIS INSTANCE OR AT
LEAST IN S UNIVERSITY AREA.
SO WE'VE HEARD DISCUSSIONS I
THINK MY MIND IS KIND OF INTO
DIFFERENT KIND OF TRACKS.
THERE'S A PROPORTIONALITY
QUESTION AND THEN THERE'S ONE
OF THE VALIDITY OF THE
UTILIZATION OF PUDI BUT THAT'S
REALLY KIND OF WHERE MY HEAD IS
AT AND MR MOORE ABSOLUTELY I'D
I'D INVITE YOUR THOUGHTS.
I WANT THIS TO BE A DIALOG SO
YEAH.
LET ME INVITE YOU TO ANOTHER
PERSPECTIVE ON THAT ISSUE IN
TERMS OF READING THE TOTALITY
OF THE PUDI SECTION OR TALKS
ABOUT AFFORDING THE DESIGNERS
FLEXIBILITY IN LAND USE AND
DESIGN.
YES.
AND THEN IT TALKS ABOUT NOT
CRAFTING THE PROJECT TO
DELIBERATELY CRAFTED TO AVOID
THE IMPOSITION OF STANDARDS.
SURE.
WITH THE CURRENT ZONING SINCE
WE'VE ELIMINATED FLOOR AREA
RATIO AS WE'VE ELIMINATED
PARKING REQUIREMENTS, THE ONLY
IMPOSITIONS REALLY ARE HEIGHT
AND SO THAT'S THE FLEXIBILITY
THAT I READ INTO THE CODE WE
HAVE FLEXIBILITY THAT WE HAVE
TO PLAY WITH.
WE CAN'T PLAY WITH FIRE.
WE CAN'T PLAY WITH PARKING
DEVIATIONS.
SO IN THIS CASE LET'S SAY THE
PROPERTY WAS ALREADY ZONED D1
ONE YOU WOULD END UP WITH A
RECTANGLE OF A BOX PUSHED UP TO
THE STREET BECAUSE THE DENHA 30
FOOT SETBACK SIDE AND YOU'D END
UP WITH A HEIGHT LIMIT THAT WAS
NO LESS DENSITY AND THEN YOU
WOULDN'T ALSO BE GETTING THAT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CONTRIBUTION.
YOU WOULDN'T BE GETTING THE
THOSE TYPE OF BENEFITS.
NOW I THINK THAT IS WHAT WE'RE
MOVING IN TO IS SOMETHING THAT
YOU COULD ARGUE THAT A
DEVELOPER WOULD BE TRYING TO
GET AWAY WITH AVOIDING
SOMETHING IF THEY WANTED TO
EXCEED THE HEIGHT LIMIT.
BUT THEY WERE ALREADY DOING
WHAT THE CODE ALLOWED YOU TO DO
TO GET A LIMIT INCREASE.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, IN THIS KIND
OF CLOSE TO COMMISSIONER, THOSE
THOUGHT ABOUT CONVERTING TO ALL
THAT TROUBLE YEARS LATER WE
CURRENTLY HAVE A SECTION THAT
SAYS YOU CAN GET A HEIGHT
INCREASE OVER THAT ONE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY.
SURE.
IF YOU PUT FELLOW CELLS ON THE
ROOF AND MAKE ELECTRIC READY.
YEAH.
SO EVEN THOUGH WE ARE ASKING
FOR HELP, WE'RE NOT TRYING TO
DO WE'RE NOT PUTTING SOLAR
PANELS OF SURE.
AND NOT READY FOR DOING BOTH
OF THOSE THINGS.
SO THAT'S HOW THE READING
OF THE CODE IN ITS TOTALITY SIR
AND I GOTCHA I APPRECIATE THAT
PERSPECTIVE.
I DO THINK THAT ALSO MAKES
SENSE I THINK BECAUSE WITH A 30
PERCENT SUSTAINABILITY PREMIUM
ON HEIGHT TAKES YET ANOTHER
THIRTY FIVE PERCENT ACTUALLY
WHICH MEANS LUNN'S LEADS ME TO
AN EASIER QUESTION.
I DID SEE THE GEOTHERMAL
ELEMENT.
I'M NOT SURE THAT I SAW
ANYTHING IN THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS REGARDING WHERE ARE
YOU GUYS WITH RESPECT TO, YOU
KNOW, VERTICAL GEOTHERMAL
WELLS?
I IMAGINE IT'S VERTICAL AND YOU
DON'T HAVE TOO MUCH TO DO.
HORIZONTAL WELLS YEAH.
THEY WOULD BE VERTICAL BORES
THAT WOULD GO
BETWEEN THE
FOUNDATION SYSTEM OF THE
BUILDING AND AS OUR
SUSTAINABILITY CONSULTANT SPOKE
TO EARLIER, THAT LIMITS US TO
THE TOTAL NUMBER OF HOURS WE
CAN ACCOMMODATE AT THE SITE.
SO THERE WOULD BE A NUMBER
OF BOARDS TO GO DOWN.
WE DON'T KNOW THE FINAL NUMBER
YET BECAUSE WE HAVEN'T DONE THE
FINAL STRUCTURE BECAUSE WE
DON'T HAVE PROJECT YET.
YEAH, BUT IT COULD BE 60 BORES
OR 40 BORES BUT SOMEWHERE IN
THAT RANGE AND THEY ARE
DEPENDENT ON THE TEST WELLS.
WE DIG FOR THE CONNECTIVITY
OF THE SOIL THAT WOULD BE
BETWEEN TWO HUNDRED AND FOUR
HUNDRED FEET DEEP TO GET THE
KIND OF EXCHANGE WE NEED TO GET
TO MINIMIZE THE USE OF GAS ON
THE SITE UNTIL YOU CAN GET US
TO BE SO IT SOUNDS LIKE THE
INTENT OF THE PARTY WOULD BE TO
INTEGRATE GEOTHERMAL.
YOU GUYS JUST HAVEN'T GOTTEN IN
A FORMAL ENGINEERING.
YEAH AND AGAIN THE RIGS ARE THE
PHOTOGRAPHS OF YOU AND THAT SO
PLAN IS THAT THE GROUND WILL BE
YOURS.
SO IF IT'S NOT IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL RIGS THAT IS IN
THE SITE BUT IT'S STILL PART
OF IT'S APPROVED BY COUNCIL,
SIR.
YOU KNOW FROM THE ZONING SIDE I
THINK IF YEAH.
THAT'S A DIFFERENT QUESTION
ALTOGETHER.
YEAH.
TO SAY IS THAT THE RIGHT PLACE
FOR THAT TO BE IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS BUT
I'D LIKE TO KNOW ABOUT THE ONE
IN THE DAYS TO COME.
I WAS AT THE MEETING AND ONE IN
DETAIL WERE DRAWN OUT AND CITY
A TIME FOR STREETCORNER BETWEEN
THE D ONE AND THE D TO
RECOGNIZE THE SPEAKER THIS TIME
.
APOLOGIES FOR THAT.
YEAH.
ULTIMATELY WHERE MY HEAD IS
JUST BEING FULLY TRANSPARENT AS
AN INDIVIDUAL I REALLY LIKE
THIS PROJECT.
I THINK IT'S BEAUTIFULLY
DESIGNED.
I THINK THERE'S SO MUCH
ARCHITECTURAL CREATIVITY TO IT
AND I THINK A LOT'S BEEN DONE
TO MAKE THIS REALLY FIT INTO A
PRETTY TIGHT YOU KNOW, SITE.
I'M WRAP MY HEAD AROUND THE
ARGUMENT WITH RESPECT TO MAKING
SURE THAT THIS ISN'T THE
AVOIDING OF IMPOSITIONS AT
STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
OF OTHER ZONING CLASSIFICATION
AS YOU GUYS ARE GOING TO BE
PROVIDING SUSTAINABILITY
ELEMENTS.
I DO UNDERSTAND THAT.
AND THEN THERE'S THE REMAINING
IDEA OF PROPORTIONALITY, RIGHT
OF IS THIS IS THIS A SUFFICIENT
ENOUGH JUSTIFICATION AND I
THINK THERE ISN'T UNFORTUNATELY
THERE ISN'T A VERY CLEAR
STANDARD AS CODIFIED.
SO I THINK THAT FOR BETTER OR
FOR WORSE THERE IS A CERTAIN
LEVEL OF SUBJECTIVITY
ASSOCIATED WITH THAT.
SO AS I SAID, I THINK THIS IS A
REALLY GOOD LOOKING OBJECT.
I I'VE HEARD SOME OF MY
COLLEAGUES HERE SAY THAT
PERHAPS IT'S TOO TALL.
THERE ARE QUESTIONS WITH
RESPECT TO ACTUALLY IT DOES
ACTUALLY BEG THE QUESTION OF IS
THERE AN OPTIMAL BUILDING SIZE
THAT IS MOST CONDUCIVE TO NOT
ZERO?
THAT'S AN INTERESTING QUESTION
I'D LOVE TO SEE SOME RESEARCH
ON.
AH BUT WITH RESPECT TO THAT I'M
STILL SLIGHTLY SOMEWHAT
HESITANT ON THOSE TWO ITEMS
OF PROPORTION QUALITY AS WELL
AS THE IMPOSITION OF STANDARDS.
I'M LEANING TOWARDS SAYING THAT
THE IMPOSITION OF STANDARDS
QUESTION HAS BEEN ACTUALLY
RESOLVED FOR ME AND THEN
THERE'S THAT OTHER QUESTION
OF PROPORTIONALITY.
SO WITH THAT DO WE HAVE ANY
OTHER THOUGHTS COMMISSIONER BE
SO I DO HAVE A QUESTION BACK TO
THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
AGAIN THIS GOES TO MAYBE THE
PROPORTIONALITY SO WE HAVE THE
TWO PIECES WHICH IS THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND AND
THEN THE WORKFORCE HOUSING
UNITS.
IT SEEMS ALMOST AS IF THE
WORKFORCE HOUSING UNITS ARE
ALMOST A LITTLE BIT MORE OF A
BURDEN THAN THEY ARE SUPPORTIVE
.
AND I'M WONDERING ALSO WHERE
THE SIX POINT THREE MILLION
COMES FROM BECAUSE THAT'S A
NUMBER THAT I SAW ONCE.
BUT IN THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS IT JUST SAYS, YOU
KNOW, THE CONTRIBUTION OR RATE
AMOUNT ESTABLISHED BY
RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL
AT THE TIME OF APPROVAL OF THE
PROJECT.
SO I'M JUST WONDERING IF MAYBE
WE CAN IF THERE COULD BE SOME
FLEXIBILITY IN THAT WHERE WE
COULD GET MORE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING SUPPORT AND I DON'T
KNOW THAT THE WORKFORCE HOUSING
UNITS THAT SOUNDS COMPLICATED.
IT SOUNDS LIKE IT'S IT'S
ACTUALLY AND I LIKE THE IDEA
BUT THE REALITY OF THAT SEEMS
LIKE I I DON'T KNOW BECAUSE YOU
KNOW, THAT'S STILL A FAIRLY AT
80 PERCENT THAT'S A PRETTY HIGH
RATE AND FOR RENT AND I I'M NOT
SURE I SEE THAT AS THE THE YEAH
WE'RE PROVIDING AFFORDABLE
HOUSING WHEN WE'RE STILL AT YOU
KNOW SIX HUNDRED A MONTH OR PER
PERSON MOST LIKELY I DON'T KNOW
HOW THAT EXACTLY WORKS BUT BUT
ANYWAY I JUST I GUESS I'D LIKE
A LITTLE BIT MORE INFORMATION
ON THE SIX POINT THREE MILLION
AND ALSO WHERE THE WORKFORCE
HOUSING UNITS DID THAT JUST
COME OUT OF CONVERSATION AND
YOU THOUGHT IT'D BE GOOD TO
HAVE THESE SIX UNITS OR IS THAT
PART OF THE PARDEEP DIFFERENT
HOUSING TYPES SO THAT THE SIX
POINT THREE MILLION WAS A
FORMULAIC CALCULATION BASED ON
THE UDC NOT SOMETHING WE
INVENTED.
WE RAN THROUGH THE CALCULATIONS
FAR.
WE UNDERSTAND THE IT IS TYPICAL
THAT BETWEEN THE PLANNING AND
CITY COUNCIL STAFF WOULD VERIFY
THAT AMOUNT AND IT MIGHT SHIFT
OR CHANGE BASED ON THEIR
APPLICATION OF THAT SAME
FORMULA.
AND THAT'S WHY THE WORDING IS
THE WAY IT IS IN THE IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS THE 80
PERCENT IDEA MILLION PART OUT
OF COMMENTS MADE BY PEOPLE WHO
ATTENDED OUR ASSISTANCE
PARTICIPATION MEETING.
BUT EVEN THOUGH THEY HAD JOBS
AND THEY DIDN'T QUALIFY FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING, THEY
COULDN'T LIVE IN ANN ARBOR AND
THEY HAD TO DRIVE IN ANN ARBOR
IN ORDER TO WORK IN ANN ARBOR.
WE THOUGHT THAT THAT'S NOT A
GREAT THING.
IF WE CAN HAVE SOME UNITS WHERE
PEOPLE DON'T HAVE TO BE DRIVING
IN THE TOWN REDUCING TRAFFIC,
REDUCING CARBON FOOTPRINT THAT
WOULD BE A BENEFIT TO THE CITY.
AND SO THAT'S HOW WE CAME ABOUT
INCLUDING OUR FIRST HALF AND SO
SIX WAS A NUMBER YOU CAME UP
WITH.
SIX WAS THE MAXIMUM.
OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
I'M ALSO A THAT'S OK.
SO MATT
I APPRECIATE THE EFFORT
TO ADDRESS THAT GAP BECAUSE
THERE IS A GAP BUT I THINK MORE
ABOUT IT PRESENTS AN
ILLUSTRATIVE COMPLEXITIES AT
LEAST ON THE CITIES SIDE AND 60
MINUTES ISN'T A LOT OF YOU AND
SO I KNOW THAT WE ARE TRYING TO
ADDRESS WORKFORCE HOUSING WITH
TSAY ONE AND I'M DELIGHTED THAT
WE'RE GOING TO SEE HOW IT ALL
WORK SESSION.
I LOOK AT STAYTON EISENHAUER
WHICH WILL HAVE STUFF THERE AND
SO I THINK IT WOULD BE BETTER
TO CONVERT THOSE SIX UNITS INTO
MONEY HELPING YOU TO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND I
ACTUALLY FEEL LIKE TO SUGGEST
THAT WE TALK ABOUT TWENTY
RATHER THAN FIFTEEN IF WE'RE
THINKING OF MOVING FORWARD WITH
THIS PROJECT OVER STUFF
NEGATIVE RECOMMENDATION I DON'T
THINK WE NEED TO ADDRESS THE
PROPORTION ISSUE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH EITHER
PLANNER OR PLANNER ON HERE THEY
AND I THINK WE HAD OUR PREMIUMS
IN PLACE WOULD HAVE BEEN
FIFTEEN PERCENT FOR THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND THEN
FIFTEEN PERCENT FOR SOLAR
ELECTRIC READY
THAT WOULD ALLOW
THEM TO EXPAND RIGHT.
OH I WAS AND SAY BEFORE AFTER
PREMIUMS.
YEAH.
IF THIS WAS RESOUNDINGLY WON
THEY WOULD ALSO NEED TO TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF OUR EXCEPTIONAL
HEIGHT LIMIT AND IT'S EITHER OR
OK THEN IT'S EITHER FIFTEEN
PERCENT OF THE FLOOR AREAS
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND THEY GET
THE 30 PERCENT BONUS OR THEY
CAN MEET THE SUSTAINABILITY
DEFINITION AND GET A 30 PERCENT
BONUS.
OK, THANK YOU MR.
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
THANK YOU.
GET MY TWO CENTS INTO THESE SIX
UNITS BECAUSE I ASSUME THEY'RE
CALLING THE WORKFORCE HOUSING
THEY WOULDN'T BE FOR STUDENTS
AND I GUESS IT COULD BE YEAH
BUT THAT'S NOT REALLY SOLVING
THE PROBLEM.
BUT I THINK WE'RE TRYING TO
SOLVE IT WAS IF IT WEREN'T FOR
STUDENTS LIKE IF I WAS BUT I
NEED IN A SITUATION I WOULDN'T
WANT TO LIVE IN A BUILDING WITH
A THOUSAND STUDENTS IF I WAS
LIKE TWENTY NINE YEARS OLD AND
JUST TRYING TO LIKE LIVE IN
ARBOR.
I'LL ALSO JUST SAY LIKE I'M
REALLY NOT COMFORTABLE JUST
LIKE THROWING MORE MONEY AT
THIS JUST TO GET LIKE THIS IS
SUCH AN EXCESS LIKE I HATE
SAYING THAT IS ONE MONEY AND IT
DOES REALLY THINGS BUT LIKE I
JUST I THINK THAT'S A GOOD THAT
CAN'T BE THE ONLY BENEFIT
QUESTION FOR DAVE ON THE DO YOU
WANT DUE TO SETBACKS VARIANTS
POSSIBLE ANY DIMENSIONAL
VARIANTS CAN BE YOU REQUESTED
AN GRANTON OR THAT'S OK BUT AND
THEN IN THE LETTER THAT WAS
SENT TO US AT THE END
OF JANUARY DAVID SO JUST READ A
COUPLE OF THINGS FROM IT AND
THEN THAT'S MY QUESTION.
SO A COUPLE OF PIECES.
IT SAYS THE INCREASED DENSITY
OF THE SITE ALLOWS THE
DEVELOPER TO JUSTIFY THE
INCREASED COSTS THAT THE
SUSTAINABILITY MEASURES IMPOSED
ON THE PROJECT AND THEN
ELSEWHERE ANY LOWER DENSITY
USING ANOTHER ZONING
DESIGNATION WOULD MAKE MANY
OF THE SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES
THAT WE HAVE PROPOSED RAPIDES
BOTH ECONOMICALLY AND
ENVIRONMENTALLY AND FEASIBLE.
AND I'M CURIOUS WHICH
SUSTAINABILITY MEASURES
INCREASE THE COST TO THE POINT
THAT DO YOU WANT TO BECOMES
ECONOMICALLY INFEASIBLE
IF ONE
OF MY OTHER TEAM MEMBERS LET'S
TAKE ANOTHER CRACK AT IT I
THINK WHAT WAS TRYING TO BE
CONVEYED IS THAT IS THE OVERALL
DENSITY OF THE PRODUCT AS
PROPOSED THAT PERMITS THE
BENEFITS IF YOU ARE FORCED INTO
A D ONE TYPE OF ZONING YOU
WOULD HAVE SUCH A HUGE
REDUCTION IN UNIT COUNT YOU
WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO DO ANY
OF THOSE THINGS MAYBE NOT EVEN
SUSTAINABLE BELIEVE THAT IS
JUST A BLANKET STATEMENT LIKE I
THINK THERE ARE PLENTY
OF PROJECTS THAT YOU COULD
BUILD TO THE SUSTAINABILITY
STANDARD IN A DIFFERENT ZONING
DISTRICT.
SO MY POINT IS THAT D ONE
DOESN'T REQUIRE THAT I DON'T I
BUT I JUST TO ME I MEAN I THINK
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT THIS BEFORE
.
I KNOW WE CAN'T ENFORCE IT BUT
LIKE THAT DOESN'T A BENEFIT TO
ME ANYMORE AT THIS POINT WHEN
EVERYBODY KNOWS THAT WE NEED TO
GO ELECTRIC LIKE THAT CAN'T BE
A STANDARD THAT WE THINK IS
LIKE AS HIGH AS IT MAYBE ONCE
WAS.
THANK YOU.
AND THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COMMENTS QUESTIONS ARE WE READY
TO GO TO A VOTE AT THIS POINT?
I THINK I'LL COMMISSIONER MILLS
I WOULD JUST SAY I DO PLAN TO
VOTE NO BECAUSE I BECAUSE I DO
THINK THAT D ONE IS MORE THE
APPROPRIATE DISTRICT AND I
DON'T THINK THAT THIS IT'S THE
STANDARD ASSOC. JUST A MINUTE I
CAN PULL IT UP BUT IT'S THE
STANDARD EFFECTIVELY THAT IS
POSSIBLE IN A DIFFERENT
DISTRICT.
BUT IF IF THIS GOES FORWARD I
WOULD JUST SAY I WOULD ASK
WHETHER PEOPLE WANT TO MAKE
AMENDMENTS SPECIFICALLY ABOUT
THE BICYCLE PARKING IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS BECAUSE AGAIN
THE SITE EVEN IF IT'S SHOWN IN
THIS PLAN, IT'S THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS THAT WILL
STICK WITH THE ZONING.
WE ARE WRITING THE ZONING
DISTRICT SO IF THIS BUILDING
DOESN'T GET BUILT, ANOTHER
BUILDING THAT COULD SUBMIT A
SITE PLAN AND THEY DON'T HAVE
TO COME BACK THROUGH ZONING
THAT WOULD THEN THAT WOULD BE
IT WOULD BE BY RIGHT AT THAT
POINT.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT I
THINK IS IS DIFFERENT AND IF
PEOPLE CARE ABOUT THE ART, I
WOULD JUST SUGGEST THAT THAT
COULD BE PUBLIC BENEFIT.
BUT YOU MIGHT WANT TO WRITE IN
A THANK YOU GIFT SO I ABLE TO
RESPOND TO ANY I WOULD LIKE TO
GIVE YOU THE TIME TO PLEASE
CHRISTOPHER.
YEAH, WE'RE WE'VE BEEN WORKING
TO PROVIDE THAT NUMBER HAPPY TO
PUT AN INCREASED NUMBER IN THE
REGS ON THE BICYCLE PARKING
WE'RE TRYING TO RUN AWAY FROM
THAT AT ALL THE OTHER I WANTED
TO GIVE YOU A LITTLE
BACKGROUND.
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN CURIOUS ABOUT
THE EIGHTY VERSUS SIXTY ETC. AS
WE DO DEVELOP STUDENT HOUSING,
WHAT WE NOTE FROM MANY PLACES
THAT WE GO TO IS THAT THE
UNIVERSITY IS ARE MAJOR
EMPLOYERS AND TO WHAT YOU'VE
HEARD TONIGHT AND I'M SURE
YOU'VE EXPERIENCED YOURSELF
CONGESTION IS DERIVED BY PEOPLE
WHO CAN'T AFFORD THE RENT HERE
AND HAVE TO LIVE ON THE
OUTSKIRTS OF TOWN.
WE'VE DONE STUDIES IN OTHER
MARKETS THAT HAVE REALLY
THOUGHT THAT THE 80 PERCENT
LEVEL WAS THE APPROPRIATE LEVEL
TO BRING IN THAT LEVEL
OF EMPLOYMENT AND KEEP THOSE
JOBS AVAILABLE TO PEOPLE
WITHOUT HAVING THEM GO THROUGH
THE COMMUTE.
HOWEVER, IF THAT IS NOT
SOMETHING THAT IS PLEASING TO
THIS GROUP, WE COULD OFFER CASH
IN LIEU OF THAT AND REMOVE
THOSE AND PUT THAT ADDITIONAL
MONEY TOWARDS TOWARDS THE
HOUSING MILLICH AND THAT WAY IT
WOULD GO TO BENEFIT THE SIXTY
PERCENT.
THANK YOU.
SO ANYBODY WANT TO OFFER REAL
TIME FEEDBACK TO THAT KIND OF A
PROPOSAL COMMISSIONER WHICH I
SURE I WANT TO OFFER DIRECT TO
THAT IT WAS THE BICKIE.
SO WHAT WE NEED TO DO THIS IS
MOVING OUR TABLE WHETHER WE
APPROVE IT OR NOT AND IT'S
GOING TO RECOMMEND IT OR NOT
AND THEN IT WILL LAND AT CITY
COUNCIL.
AND WHAT I HEAR COMMISSIONER
SAYING IS IF WE CARE ABOUT
THESE TWO THINGS WE SHOULD
CHANGE IT HERE AS OPPOSED TO
HOPING THAT COUNCIL WILL WHEN
IT LANDS AT ITS TABLE.
IS THAT CORRECT?
WOULD THAT BE ACCURATE?
NO CRITICISM I CAN PASS.
I KNOW WHERE I'M GOING.
I WAS JUST GOING TO GO AHEAD
AND I'M SORRY I WAS JUST GOING
TO GO OUT AND SAY I WOULD
SUPPORT I'LL BE THE ONE TO SAY
I'LL SUPPORT THE PAYMENT IN
LIEU IDEA SO I'M HAPPY TO MAKE
A MOTION TO AMEND OR TO ASK TO
AMEND THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATION TO INCLUDE THE LIKE
PARKING AND THE PUBLIC ART AS
PART OF THE ZONING DISTRICT AND
I NEED A SECOND ON THAT.
SOMEBODY WANT TO SECOND THAT I
WILL SECOND THAT.
OK, WE'RE NOW IN DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION TO AMEND THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATION WITH
RESPECT TO ARTWORK, ADDITIONAL
ARTWORK AS WELL AS THE BIKE
PARKING REQUIRE FOR THE PD
DISCUSSION.
OK, LET ME FIRST ASK PETITIONER
IS THAT A FRIENDLY ADDITION TO
THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
FOR OK GOT IT MYCELIA I THINK
THE THE REQUIREMENT OF PUBLIC
ART HOUSE SPECIFIC DO WE NEED
TO BE I MEAN LIKE I DON'T KNOW
WHAT THAT MURAL SIZE IS.
THIS IS THE FIRST FLOOR STORE
FRONT OF YOU KNOW TWENTY FEET
BY A CERTAIN DIMENSION.
I DON'T KNOW HOW SPECIFIC WE
NEED TO BE BUT IT SHALL INCLUDE
A WHAT DO YOU RECOMMEND I
SUPPOSE AS FAR AS WORDSMITH
THIS UH IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO
REGULATE ART.
I WOULD I WOULD SAY THAT YOU
YOU SHOULD BE AS SPECIFIC AS
YOU FEEL NECESSARY TO ENSURE
PUBLIC BENEFIT.
I WOULD MAYBE SAY A EVALUATE
WHAT TYPES OF ART ARE YOU'RE
EXPECTING?
IS IT JUST MURALS, MURALS OR
PAINTINGS?
WOULD YOU ALSO COULD IT BE
ACCEPTABLE TO SWITCH TO A
SCULPTURE THE WATER FEATURE?
OK, SQUARE FOOTAGE PERCENTAGE
WISE UP KELLY, I JUST WANT TO
BRING UP SOMETHING THAT WE HEAR
VERY OFTEN WHENEVER WE MEET
WITH THE DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
THERE'S A REPRESENTATIVE FROM
THE PUBLIC ART COMMISSION.
WE HAVE THE NAME RIGHT WHO SITS
ON THE DESIGN REVIEW BOARD AND
THEY FREQUENTLY EMPHASIZE ART
OTHER THAN MURALS.
SO WE COULD TAKE A LOOK AT SOME
OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS THAT
HAVE COME THROUGH THE DESIGN
REVIEW BOARD.
SOMETIMES THEY RECOMMEND
MOSAICS THEY RECOMMEND THEY DO
FREQUENTLY RECOMMEND SCULPTURES
FOR CONSIDERATION OF THINGS
BEYOND MURALS BASICALLY.
SO WE COULD DEFINITELY TAKE A
LOOK AT THAT IF IT WERE TO
IDENTIFY MAYBE BE MORE VAGUE
THAN WE COULD CONSIDER
SOMETHING TO ADVANCE TO THE
COUNCIL.
MY PREFERENCE HERE WOULD BE NOT
TO BE SO PRESCRIPTIVE ON THIS
AND COMMISSIONER WISCH SAID
HE'D BE WILLING TO RETRACT HIS
MOTION SO IS THAT WHERE WE'RE
AT RIGHT NOW?
CAN I GET SOME OTHER THOUGHTS
ON THIS?
YOU CAN DIRECT STAFF TO DEVELOP
LANGUAGE AND THE REGS BEFORE
THEY PROCEED TO THE CITY
COUNCIL FOR EXAMPLE AND JUST TO
POINT OUT MR. LEONARD IS GIVING
US SOME INFORMATION VIRTUALLY
AND CALCULATED THAT THE SIX
UNITS WOULD REPRESENT TWO
PERCENT OF THE OVERALL UNITS
AND WOULD INCREASE THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING CONTRIBUTION
IN LIEU TO SEVENTEEN PERCENT
GOT THANK YOU FOR THE
CLARIFICATION.
I SUPPOSE THAT THE DIRECTIVE
WOULD BE TO HAVE STAFF CREATE
SOME LEVEL OF LANGUAGE WITH
RESPECT TO PUBLIC ART AS A
PUBLIC BENEFIT AS THE PODDY AND
THEN WITH RESPECT TO THE
PARKING, DID YOU WANT TO OFFER
SOME ADDITIONAL CLARIFICATION
ON THAT WHETHER FOR SIXTY EIGHT
IN THE UNDERGROUND AND A
HUNDRED AND I WROTE IT DOWN
BECAUSE I DID MATH OR DID I
WRITE IT DOWN OH ONE OH SEVEN
ON THE GROUND FLOOR OF THE MAIN
UNIT.
SO I DON'T I MEAN DO WE WRITE
IN THAT NUMBER AND SAY THEY
HAVE TO PROVIDE FIVE HUNDRED
AND SEVENTY FIVE PLUS A PARKING
LIKE PARKING SPOTS I WOULD
SUGGEST THAT YOU EITHER SPECIFY
THE NUMBER OR A
ROUGH
CALCULATIONS.
THAT SOUNDS TO ME IT'S LIKE
HALF A SPACE PER BEDROOM ONE
SPACE ONE OR ONE SPACE FOR
EVERY TWO BEDROOMS SO THAT
COULD BE ALL THAT ALSO COULD BE
THE STANDARD WE COULD DO TWO
PER UNIT OR TWO PER UNIT.
CAN WE DO TWO PER UNIT BECAUSE
I FEEL LIKE THAT'S EASIER
BECAUSE I'M IF THEY CHANGE THE
BEDROOMS THEN THINGS GET WEIRD
IS THAT FRIENDLY IS IS FRIENDLY
TO THE PETITIONER SO SAY THAT
AGAIN I'LL GET ALL RIGHT IS THE
DAY I KNOW IS THE PETITIONER
FINALLY TO THE CONCEPT
OF ADDING TO THE PUDI
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS TO
LIKE PARKING SPOTS PER UNIT I
THINK THERE'S ABOUT WHAT TWO
HUNDRED UNITS.
TWO HUNDRED AND SEVENTY THREE I
THINK WOULD BE 273 THAT YEAH
SIX BREAK UP MY CAR.
YES YEAH OK MR LEO IS THAT
POSSIBLE FOR ARE THERE ANY
OTHER DISCUSSION POINTS WITH
RESPECT THOSE TWO AGAIN
DIRECTING STAFF TO INCLUDE SOME
CRAFT SOME LANGUAGE WITH
RESPECT TO PUBLIC ART AND ALSO
TO REQUIRE TWO PARKING BIKE
PARKING SPACES PER UNIT AND THE
OTHER DISCUSSIONS?
OK, WE WILL GO TO A VOTE WITH
RESPECT TO THE AMENDMENT, COULD
SOMEONE PLEASE SUMMARIZE THE
THE CLEAN FINAL PROPOSAL?
YES.
THE PUDI SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS WOULD BE AMENDED TO
INCLUDE PUBLIC ART AS A
REQUIREMENT WITH LANGUAGE TO BE
CRAFTED BY STAFF AND THE SECOND
PORTION WOULD BE BUYSIDE
PARKING TO BICYCLE PARKING
SPOTS PER UNIT WOULD BE
REQUIRED IN THE PRE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND I ACTUALLY
I AM GOING TO SAY THAT I KNOW
IT'S THROWING MONEY AT IT BUT
20 PERCENT AFFORDABLE PAYMENT
EITHER ONE BUT IT'S PROBABLY
GOING WE CAN ABSOLUTELY DO IT
SEPARATE.
OK, GOT IT.
BUT I WILL NOT VOTE YES ON THIS
IF IF THE NUMBER THE PERCENTAGE
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING IS NOT
INCREASED UNDERSTOOD.
OK, SO THIS VOTE IS WITH
RESPECT TO PUBLIC BIKE PARKING
SPACES.
MAX KELLY WILL YOU PLEASE CALL
ROLL CALL VOTE?
ABSOLUTELY.
COMMISSIONER LEE YES.
UH COMMISSIONER WISCH YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER DIS YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARKE.
YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
COMMISSIONER.
YES.
WHETHER IT BE YES THAT PASSES
COMMISSIONER.
OK WE ARE BACK NOW ONTO THE
WHETHER IT BE YES THAT PASSES
MAIN MOTION WHICH IS THE TWO ON
OK WE ARE BACK NOW ONTO THE
THE TABLE WITH RESPECT TO THE
MAIN MOTION WHICH IS THE TWO ON
PRE SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS AS
THE TABLE WITH RESPECT TO THE
A SIDE PLAN I BELIEVE THAT
PRE SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS AS
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH HAD OH OH
A SIDE PLAN I BELIEVE THAT
COMMISSIONER CLARK, I BELIEVE
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH HAD OH OH
THAT YOU WERE INTERESTED IN
COMMISSIONER CLARK, I BELIEVE
EXPLORING THE PAYMENT IN LIEU
THAT YOU WERE INTERESTED IN
OF THE WORKFORCE HOUSING
EXPLORING THE PAYMENT IN LIEU
REQUEST.
OF THE WORKFORCE HOUSING
ABSOLUTELY OK AND SO DO I HAVE
REQUEST.
A FORMAL MOTION TO AMEND THE
ABSOLUTELY OK AND SO DO I HAVE
PUDI SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS?
A FORMAL MOTION TO AMEND THE
YES, OK, DO I HAVE A SECOND?
PUDI SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS?
OK COMMISSIONER WHY SHOULD THE
YES, OK, DO I HAVE A SECOND?
SECOND WE'RE NOW IN DISCUSSION
OK COMMISSIONER WHY SHOULD THE
THIS PARTICULAR DISCUSSION WITH
SECOND WE'RE NOW IN DISCUSSION
RESPECT TO MANNING THE PORT
THIS PARTICULAR DISCUSSION WITH
PIRIE SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
RESPECT TO MANNING THE PORT
TO SWITCH THE PAYMENT IN LIEU
PIRIE SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
I'M SORRY THE OF THE WORKFORCE
TO SWITCH THE PAYMENT IN LIEU
HOUSING REQUIREMENT WITH A
I'M SORRY THE OF THE WORKFORCE
PROPORTIONAL INCREASE IN
HOUSING REQUIREMENT WITH A
PAYMENT IN LIEU DISCUSSION SO
PROPORTIONAL INCREASE IN
YOU JUST SAY IT'S A GOOD IDEA
PAYMENT IN LIEU DISCUSSION SO
TO REDUCE OVERHEAD
YOU JUST SAY IT'S A GOOD IDEA
ADMINISTRATIVE BURDEN WHICH PER
TO REDUCE OVERHEAD
DOLLAR WILL GET US MORE
ADMINISTRATIVE BURDEN WHICH PER
AFFORDABLE HOUSING MORE
DOLLAR WILL GET US MORE
EFFECTIVELY SPENT.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING MORE
SO LET'S JUST DO IT UNDERSTOOD
EFFECTIVELY SPENT.
COMMISSIONER.
SO LET'S JUST DO IT UNDERSTOOD
WHY SO WE'RE CONSIDERING 17
COMMISSIONER.
PERCENT WHICH IS TAKING THE
WHY SO WE'RE CONSIDERING 17
EXISTING EIGHT SIX UNITS OR
PERCENT WHICH IS TAKING THE
EIGHT UNITS, SIX UNITS
EXISTING EIGHT SIX UNITS OR
REFERRING THOSE IN TO CASH
EIGHT UNITS, SIX UNITS
PAYMENTS IN LIEU AND THAT WAS
REFERRING THOSE IN TO CASH
ACCORDING TO PLAN OUR LYNARD
PAYMENTS IN LIEU AND THAT WAS
PLANNING MANAGER LAINER TO TWO
ACCORDING TO PLAN OUR LYNARD
PERCENT SO THAT WOULD MOVE FROM
PLANNING MANAGER LAINER TO TWO
15 TO 17.
PERCENT SO THAT WOULD MOVE FROM
SO THAT'S WHAT WE'RE CURRENTLY
15 TO 17.
CONSIDERING.
SO THAT'S WHAT WE'RE CURRENTLY
BUT COMMISSIONER DISH SAID SHE
CONSIDERING.
WOULD SO WILL YOU MAKE AN
BUT COMMISSIONER DISH SAID SHE
AMENDMENT TO THIS AMENDMENT TO
WOULD SO WILL YOU MAKE AN
GO TO TWENTY OR ARE WE
AMENDMENT TO THIS AMENDMENT TO
DISCUSSING IT BETWEEN SEVENTEEN
GO TO TWENTY OR ARE WE
AND TWENTY?
DISCUSSING IT BETWEEN SEVENTEEN
DO YOU WANT TO VOTE ON THESE
AND TWENTY?
SEPARATELY?
DO YOU WANT TO VOTE ON THESE
I DON'T KNOW WHAT WOULD I THINK
SEPARATELY?
I'M TRYING TO FIGURE OUT WHAT
I DON'T KNOW WHAT WOULD I THINK
THE NUMBER IS.
I'M TRYING TO FIGURE OUT WHAT
I AM I'M READING THAT I'M
THE NUMBER IS.
READING THE STAFF REPORT
I AM I'M READING THAT I'M
AFFORDABLE HOUSING REQUIREMENTS
READING THE STAFF REPORT
MAY NEED TO BE REVISED FROM
AFFORDABLE HOUSING REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM FIFTEEN PERCENT OF THE
MAY NEED TO BE REVISED FROM
FLOOR AREA DEDICATED TO
MINIMUM FIFTEEN PERCENT OF THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING DWELLING
FLOOR AREA DEDICATED TO
UNITS TO ANOTHER PERCENTAGE.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING DWELLING
A FURTHER INCREASE MAY BE
UNITS TO ANOTHER PERCENTAGE.
NECESSARY TO OFFSET THE
A FURTHER INCREASE MAY BE
WORKFORCE HOUSING UNITS.
NECESSARY TO OFFSET THE
SO I WILL BE ASKING FOR FIVE
WORKFORCE HOUSING UNITS.
PERCENT ON TOP OF WHAT IS BEING
SO I WILL BE ASKING FOR FIVE
CONVERTED FROM WORKFORCE
PERCENT ON TOP OF WHAT IS BEING
HOUSING SO WELL NO BUT I WOULD
CONVERTED FROM WORKFORCE
BE WE COULD DEBATE THAT BUT WE
HOUSING SO WELL NO BUT I WOULD
KNOW THE DEVELOPER IS WILLING
BE WE COULD DEBATE THAT BUT WE
TO GO TO SEVENTEEN.
KNOW THE DEVELOPER IS WILLING
YEAH, BASED ON THE
TO GO TO SEVENTEEN.
CONVERSATION.
YEAH, BASED ON THE
SO NOW IT'S DO WE WANT TO GO TO
CONVERSATION.
TWENTY?
SO NOW IT'S DO WE WANT TO GO TO
WELL, I WOULD SUGGEST TO YOU
TWENTY?
WHAT YOU WANT TO RIGHT ON TOP
WELL, I WOULD SUGGEST TO YOU
OR RIGHT.
WHAT YOU WANT TO RIGHT ON TOP
WE'RE GETTING THE SUPPORT NOW I
OR RIGHT.
THINK WE SHOULD VOTE I WOULD
WE'RE GETTING THE SUPPORT NOW I
LIKE US I WOULD SUGGEST IF WE
THINK WE SHOULD VOTE I WOULD
ARE IN DISCUSSION RIGHT NOW
LIKE US I WOULD SUGGEST IF WE
THAT WE KEEP THESE SEPARATE
ARE IN DISCUSSION RIGHT NOW
BECAUSE I THINK THAT THE THE
THAT WE KEEP THESE SEPARATE
QUESTION OF CONVERTING WHAT'S
BECAUSE I THINK THAT THE THE
ALREADY IN THERE TO SOMETHING
QUESTION OF CONVERTING WHAT'S
ELSE TO A DIFFERENT FORM IS
ALREADY IN THERE TO SOMETHING
RELATIVELY UNCONTROVERSIAL AND
ELSE TO A DIFFERENT FORM IS
THEN WE COULD BAT AROUND FIVE
RELATIVELY UNCONTROVERSIAL AND
PERCENT IF THERE'S A YOU MAYBE
THEN WE COULD BAT AROUND FIVE
FIVE, MAYBE THREE WE CAN ARM
PERCENT IF THERE'S A YOU MAYBE
WRESTLE WHATEVER AND THEN WE'LL
FIVE, MAYBE THREE WE CAN ARM
VOTE.
WRESTLE WHATEVER AND THEN WE'LL
YEAH, UNDERSTOOD.
VOTE.
SO AS OF RIGHT NOW THIS
YEAH, UNDERSTOOD.
PARTICULAR AMENDMENTS SPECIFIES
SO AS OF RIGHT NOW THIS
THAT THE WORKFORCE HOUSING
PARTICULAR AMENDMENTS SPECIFIES
REQUIREMENT AH OFFER WOULD BE
THAT THE WORKFORCE HOUSING
BASICALLY TRADED FOR A TWO
REQUIREMENT AH OFFER WOULD BE
PERCENT INCREASE FOR THE
BASICALLY TRADED FOR A TWO
PAYMENT IN LIEU MOOK'S KHALEDA
PERCENT INCREASE FOR THE
OH PETITIONER ARE YOU STILL
PAYMENT IN LIEU MOOK'S KHALEDA
FRIENDLY WITH THAT AMENDMENT.
OH PETITIONER ARE YOU STILL
THE ONLY OBSERVATION I'M MAKING
FRIENDLY WITH THAT AMENDMENT.
IS THAT WOULD BE A 60 PERCENT
THE ONLY OBSERVATION I'M MAKING
TO 80 PERCENT ON SO THEY'RE NOT
IS THAT WOULD BE A 60 PERCENT
EXACTLY EQUAL.
TO 80 PERCENT ON SO THEY'RE NOT
OK, SO IT WOULD DEPEND ON IF IT
EXACTLY EQUAL.
WAS ADDITIVE AS WE'RE TALKING
OK, SO IT WOULD DEPEND ON IF IT
ABOUT.
WAS ADDITIVE AS WE'RE TALKING
SO I DON'T KNOW REALLY WHAT TO
ABOUT.
DO WITH THAT INFORMATION, SIR.
SO I DON'T KNOW REALLY WHAT TO
SURE.
DO WITH THAT INFORMATION, SIR.
THAT'S HAPPENING REAL TIME
SURE.
RIGHT NOW.
THAT'S HAPPENING REAL TIME
SO OK, UNDERSTOOD.
RIGHT NOW.
SO RIGHT.
SO OK, UNDERSTOOD.
COULD YOU CHECK WITH MR LEONARD
SO RIGHT.
IF THE THE CALCULATION THAT HE
COULD YOU CHECK WITH MR LEONARD
PROFFERED SIXTY PERCENT
IF THE THE CALCULATION THAT HE
RELATIVE TO EIGHTY PERCENT I
PROFFERED SIXTY PERCENT
WOULD LIKE CLARIFICATION ON
RELATIVE TO EIGHTY PERCENT I
THAT.
WOULD LIKE CLARIFICATION ON
IT WAS JUST BASED ON THE NUMBER
THAT.
OF UNITS UNITS 15 PERCENT
IT WAS JUST BASED ON THE NUMBER
OF THE TO THE WORKFORCE HOUSING
OF UNITS UNITS 15 PERCENT
UNITS THE 66 WERE TWO PERCENT
OF THE TO THE WORKFORCE HOUSING
OF THE TOTAL NUMBER OF UNITS.
UNITS THE 66 WERE TWO PERCENT
GOT IT.
OF THE TOTAL NUMBER OF UNITS.
SO YES, IT WOULD BE 17 PERCENT
GOT IT.
AND THEN YOU'RE ASKING YOU'RE
SO YES, IT WOULD BE 17 PERCENT
LOOKING FOR CLARIFICATION ON
AND THEN YOU'RE ASKING YOU'RE
WHETHER THE PAYMENT IN LIEU I
LOOKING FOR CLARIFICATION ON
HEARD A COUPLE OF DIFFERENT
WHETHER THE PAYMENT IN LIEU I
NUMBERS SO I JUST CURIOUS AS TO
HEARD A COUPLE OF DIFFERENT
WHAT THE FINAL VERSION IS.
NUMBERS SO I JUST CURIOUS AS TO
I COULD THE THE CREDIT FOR
WHAT THE FINAL VERSION IS.
THAT.
I COULD THE THE CREDIT FOR
YEAH, SURE.
THAT.
THE CURRENT MARGIN IS TO
YEAH, SURE.
BASICALLY HAVE 15 TO 17 PERCENT
THE CURRENT MARGIN IS TO
PAYMENT IN FAMILY TO THAT AND
BASICALLY HAVE 15 TO 17 PERCENT
YET NO WORKFORCE HOUSING
PAYMENT IN FAMILY TO THAT AND
REQUIREMENT.
YET NO WORKFORCE HOUSING
YES.
REQUIREMENT.
OK, SO THEY'RE FRIENDLY TO THAT
YES.
.
OK, SO THEY'RE FRIENDLY TO THAT
ANY OTHER COMMENTS DISCUSSION
.
COMMISSIONER CLARK, ANYTHING
ANY OTHER COMMENTS DISCUSSION
FROM YOU?
COMMISSIONER CLARK, ANYTHING
OK, I THINK WE'RE READY TO GO
FROM YOU?
TO A ROLL CALL VOTE WITH
OK, I THINK WE'RE READY TO GO
RESPECT TO THIS MOTION.
TO A ROLL CALL VOTE WITH
COULD I ALSO PLEASE ASK FOR A
RESPECT TO THIS MOTION.
NEW SUMMARIZED CLEAN VERSION
COULD I ALSO PLEASE ASK FOR A
OF THE AMENDMENT?
NEW SUMMARIZED CLEAN VERSION
SURE.
OF THE AMENDMENT?
THE IT WOULD BE THAT THE PUDI
SURE.
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS WOULD
THE IT WOULD BE THAT THE PUDI
INCREASE THE PAYMENT AND LIEU
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS WOULD
TO 17 PERCENT IN EXCHANGE FOR
INCREASE THE PAYMENT AND LIEU
THE REMOVAL OF THE WORKFORCE
TO 17 PERCENT IN EXCHANGE FOR
HOUSING THE SIX UNITS
THE REMOVAL OF THE WORKFORCE
OF WORKFORCE HOUSING
HAVE
CLARITY FROM EVERYBODY ON THAT.
EVERYBODY ON THE SURE I'M
GETTING A LITTLE TIRED SO BEAR
WITH ME HERE.
WOULD THIS ALSO BE LIKE THE
FLOOR SPACE OR DWELLING UNIT
BECAUSE I REMEMBER READING
SOMETHING IN THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS WHERE IT WAS ABOUT
THE PERCENTAGE FLOOR SPACE OR
AM I MAKING THAT UP?
I MIGHT BE MISREMEMBERING THAT
I'M JUST MAKING SURE IT'S
BROADENED TO COVER .
GIVE US JUST A SECOND.
IT'S HARD TO GET IN RIGHT
?
CORRECT.
THAT'S MY UNDERSTANDING IN THE
MEMO DOES SAY A MINIMUM OF SIX
DWELLING UNITS SHALL BE LEASED
TO HOUSEHOLDS EARNING 80
PERCENT OF BMI.
YEAH, YEAH, SURE.
YEAH.
MR. MILLS, MY UNDERSTANDING
OF THE CLARIFICATION WAS IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS ONE SAYS
AFFORDABLE HOUSING DWELLING
UNITS A MINIMUM OF 15 CURRENTLY
NEEDS A MINIMUM OF 15 PERCENT
OF THE FLOOR AREA SHALL BE
DEDICATED OR AND THEN A
CONTRIBUTION IN LIEU OF UNITS
MAY BE MADE.
I THINK THAT THE PROPOSAL WAS
AND THEN NUMBER TWO IS
WORKFORCE HOUSING DWELLING
UNITS.
THE PROPOSAL WAS TO STRIKE
NUMBER TO NUMBER ONE CHANGE
THAT MINIMUM TO BE SEVENTEEN
PERCENT OF THE FLOOR AREA OR
THE EQUIVALENT IN PAYMENT
OF LOU.
THERE WON'T BE FOR YOU TO
ACTUALLY DEDICATED TO IT AT ALL
EVEN IN LOW
.
IS THAT WHAT OTHER PEOPLE
UNDERSTOOD?
MAYBE NOT.
NO.
YES.
AND ON PAGE THREE THERE'S KBE
THAT TALKS ABOUT MAINTENANCE
WORKERS, HOUSING UNITS THAT
ALSO NEEDS TO BE STRIX AND
STRICT REMOVED AND AS JUST A
POINT OF CLARIFICATION, HOW
LARGE OF THE DWELLING UNITS
WERE THEY GOING TO BE FOR THE
SIX TWO BEDS?
SO ON A SQUARE FOOTAGE BASIS
WHAT 900 SQUARE FEET 1000
PAGES?
I THINK THEY WERE WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF THE TOWNHOMES
WHICH OCCUPIED FIVE TWO HUNDRED
I THINK THEY WERE A LITTLE
LARGER.
OK, COULD YOU GIVE ME JUST AN
AVERAGE HIP SHOT LET'S SAY 12
12.
I GOT IT.
SO YEAH EFFECTIVELY JUST AS A
QUICK NUMERICAL CLARIFICATION
ON A 450 THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT
BUILDING BASICALLY 15 PERCENT
IS SIXTY SEVEN THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET.
17 PERCENT IS SEVENTY SIX
THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED.
YOU'RE GETTING NINE THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET TECHNICALLY QUOTE
UNQUOTE.
AND THEN THE TRADE OFF OF SIX
DWELLING UNITS AT TWELVE
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET IS 72.
SO I THINK NUMERICALLY THIS AT
LEAST MAKES SENSE TO ME.
IT MAY NOT BE PERFECTLY
COMPARABLE BUT THE PARAMOUNT
PAYMENT, LOU, IS AGAIN I THINK
DESIRABLE FROM THE HOUSING
COMMISSION AS FAR AS THE
ADMINISTRATION OF FORCE HOUSING
REQUIREMENTS.
OK, SO LOOKS KELLY, IS THAT
CLEAR THE MOTION AS I
UNDERSTAND IT IS THE PUDI
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATION WOULD
BE AMENDED TO INCREASE TO 17
PERCENT OF OUR AREA OR
EQUIVALENT IN PAYMENT IN LIEU
OR AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN
EXCHANGE FOR REMOVAL OF SIX
WORK HOUSING UNITS WHICH WOULD
BE REMOVED FROM THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS ALONG
WITH OTHER MENTIONS
OF WORKFORCE HOUSING CORRECT ON
THAT AMENDMENT YOU'LL JUST GIVE
ME ONE MOMENT COMMISSIONER
WHURLEY.
YES.
COMMISSIONER WISCH.
COMMISSIONER HAMAJIMA.
YES.
COUNCILMAN BURGESS.
COMMISSIONER CLARK GOT YES.
YES.
I GET EXCITED.
COMMISSIONER CLARK GOT YES.
YES COMMISSIONER.
I GET EXCITED.
WHETHER IT BE YES THAT PASSES
YES COMMISSIONER.
OK.
WHETHER IT BE YES THAT PASSES
ALL RIGHT.
OK.
WE ARE NOW BACK TO THE MAIN
ALL RIGHT.
MOTION WHICH IS THE PUDI SITE
WE ARE NOW BACK TO THE MAIN
PLUS SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATION
MOTION WHICH IS THE PUDI SITE
APPROVAL AS WELL AS THE SITE
PLUS SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATION
PLAN APPROVAL.
APPROVAL AS WELL AS THE SITE
AND WE ARE NOW BACK TO COUNCIL
PLAN APPROVAL.
MEMBER DESH.
AND WE ARE NOW BACK TO COUNCIL
I BELIEVE YOU'D LIKE TO TALK
MEMBER DESH.
ABOUT PROPORTIONALITY.
I BELIEVE YOU'D LIKE TO TALK
YEAH.
ABOUT PROPORTIONALITY.
SO IN VIEW OF PROPORTIONALITY
YEAH.
IT IS A SIGNIFICANT INCREASE IN
SO IN VIEW OF PROPORTIONALITY
DENSITY OVER THE BASE DENSITY.
IT IS A SIGNIFICANT INCREASE IN
IT'S A SIGNIFICANTLY LARGER
DENSITY OVER THE BASE DENSITY.
BUILDING THAN THE BUILDING THAT
IT'S A SIGNIFICANTLY LARGER
WE APPROVED AT FOREST I THINK
BUILDING THAN THE BUILDING THAT
REQUESTING A TOTAL OF TWENTY
WE APPROVED AT FOREST I THINK
PERCENT AFFORDABLE HOUSING
REQUESTING A TOTAL OF TWENTY
PAYMENT IN LIEU OR FLOOR AREA
PERCENT AFFORDABLE HOUSING
IS NOT UNREASONABLE AND SO I
PAYMENT IN LIEU OR FLOOR AREA
WOULD MAKE THAT MOTION.
IS NOT UNREASONABLE AND SO I
OK, DO WE HAVE A SECOND
WOULD MAKE THAT MOTION.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBY'S THE
OK, DO WE HAVE A SECOND
SECOND WE ARE NOW IN DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBY'S THE
WITH RESPECT TO THE PROPOSED
SECOND WE ARE NOW IN DISCUSSION
AMENDMENT TO INCREASE THE ONE
WITH RESPECT TO THE PROPOSED
SECOND TO INCREASE THE
AMENDMENT TO INCREASE THE ONE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING REQUIREMENT
SECOND TO INCREASE THE
TO TWENTY PERCENT.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING REQUIREMENT
OH OK.
TO TWENTY PERCENT.
I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY THAT WE
OH OK.
ARE GOING I DON'T KNOW IT'S
I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY THAT WE
JUST A TWENTY FIVE TWENTY OK OK
ARE GOING I DON'T KNOW IT'S
SO THAT DISCUSSION HOW IF THE
JUST A TWENTY FIVE TWENTY OK OK
PETITIONER COULD COME ON UP AND
SO THAT DISCUSSION HOW IF THE
TALK TO US ABOUT THIS BUT I
PETITIONER COULD COME ON UP AND
DON'T I'M JUST TRYING TO
TALK TO US ABOUT THIS BUT I
UNDERSTAND LIKE THIS IS A THE
DON'T I'M JUST TRYING TO
WORKFORCE HOUSING YOU HAD
UNDERSTAND LIKE THIS IS A THE
ALREADY BUILT INTO THE PLAN SO
WORKFORCE HOUSING YOU HAD
SHIFTING THAT SEEMED TO MAKE
ALREADY BUILT INTO THE PLAN SO
SENSE.
SHIFTING THAT SEEMED TO MAKE
SO MY QUESTION IS AN ADDITIONAL
SENSE.
THREE PERCENT WHERE HOW DOES
SO MY QUESTION IS AN ADDITIONAL
THAT DO WE HAVE A NUMBER ON THE
THREE PERCENT WHERE HOW DOES
POINT FOUR MILLION.
THAT DO WE HAVE A NUMBER ON THE
SO I'M JUST TRYING I'M JUST
POINT FOUR MILLION.
TRYING TO UNDERSTAND LIKE WHAT
SO I'M JUST TRYING I'M JUST
IS THAT?
TRYING TO UNDERSTAND LIKE WHAT
I WANT TO GET POINT
IS THAT?
OF INFORMATION THAT IS DO WE DO
I WANT TO GET POINT
WE DEBATE THIS WITH THE
OF INFORMATION THAT IS DO WE DO
PETITIONER?
WE DEBATE THIS WITH THE
I MEAN IF THE PETITIONER
PETITIONER?
DOESN'T LIKE THIS AND WE VOTE
I MEAN IF THE PETITIONER
FOR THEY CAN TRY TO GET COUNCIL
DOESN'T LIKE THIS AND WE VOTE
TO TAKE IT OUT OR THEY CAN SAY
FOR THEY CAN TRY TO GET COUNCIL
WE CAN'T DO THE PROJECT BUT DO
TO TAKE IT OUT OR THEY CAN SAY
WE GO BACK AND FORTH?
WE CAN'T DO THE PROJECT BUT DO
WELL, NO, I'M ASKING A QUESTION
WE GO BACK AND FORTH?
WELL ON THE FLOOR AND I WAS
WELL, NO, I'M ASKING A QUESTION
STILL SPEAKING SO I'LL FINISH I
WELL ON THE FLOOR AND I WAS
BUT YOU INTERRUPTED ME BECAUSE
STILL SPEAKING SO I'LL FINISH I
HAD THE FLOOR SO IF WE'RE GOING
BUT YOU INTERRUPTED ME BECAUSE
TO DO THAT I WAS RECOGNIZED BY
HAD THE FLOOR SO IF WE'RE GOING
THE CHAIR.
TO DO THAT I WAS RECOGNIZED BY
I WOULD LIKE TO FINISH.
THE CHAIR.
THANK YOU SO WE HAVE BEEN
I WOULD LIKE TO FINISH.
ASKING THE PETITIONER HOW THIS
THANK YOU SO WE HAVE BEEN
HAS WORKED AND I WOULD LIKE TO
ASKING THE PETITIONER HOW THIS
KNOW FROM THE PETITIONER IF
HAS WORKED AND I WOULD LIKE TO
THEY HAVE SOME SOMETHING TO SAY
KNOW FROM THE PETITIONER IF
ABOUT IT.
THEY HAVE SOME SOMETHING TO SAY
THAT'S WHAT I'M ASKING FOR.
ABOUT IT.
THE CHAIR CAN TELL ME NO AND
THAT'S WHAT I'M ASKING FOR.
I'M HAPPY TO WITHDRAW THE
THE CHAIR CAN TELL ME NO AND
QUESTION.
I'M HAPPY TO WITHDRAW THE
I'D LIKE TO HAVE A DISCUSSION
QUESTION.
INTERNALLY WITH THE PLANNING
I'D LIKE TO HAVE A DISCUSSION
COMMISSION PRIOR TO ASKING FOR
INTERNALLY WITH THE PLANNING
FEEDBACK.
COMMISSION PRIOR TO ASKING FOR
THAT'S NOT I CAN WAIT ON A
FEEDBACK.
QUESTION.
THAT'S NOT I CAN WAIT ON A
THANK UM I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY
QUESTION.
A FEW THINGS FROM MY
THANK UM I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY
STANDPOINT.
A FEW THINGS FROM MY
SO WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT MY
STANDPOINT.
UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THE
SO WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT MY
CALCULATION OF THE PAYMENT IN
UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THE
LIEU IS EQUIVALENT TO ABOUT ONE
CALCULATION OF THE PAYMENT IN
HUNDRED TWENTY SEVEN DOLLARS A
LIEU IS EQUIVALENT TO ABOUT ONE
SQUARE FOOT, IS THAT CORRECT?
HUNDRED TWENTY SEVEN DOLLARS A
I THINK I HAD THAT IN THE BACK
SQUARE FOOT, IS THAT CORRECT?
OF MY HEAD FROM A LONG, LONG
I THINK I HAD THAT IN THE BACK
TIME AGO.
OF MY HEAD FROM A LONG, LONG
PLANNER JULIO, I'M JUST TRYING
TIME AGO.
TO SAY THAT AGAIN I HAD THE
PLANNER JULIO, I'M JUST TRYING
PAYMENT IN LIEU TAKE OFF THE
TO SAY THAT AGAIN I HAD THE
PER SQUARE FOOT CALCULATION AS
PAYMENT IN LIEU TAKE OFF THE
ONE HUNDRED TWENTY SEVEN BUCKS
PER SQUARE FOOT CALCULATION AS
A FOOT FROM I.
ONE HUNDRED TWENTY SEVEN BUCKS
I THINK I GOT THAT NUMBER A
A FOOT FROM I.
LONG, LONG TIME AGO IS ONE
I THINK I GOT THAT NUMBER A
HUNDRED AND TWENTY SIX DOLLARS
LONG, LONG TIME AGO IS ONE
PER SQUARE FOOT.
HUNDRED AND TWENTY SIX DOLLARS
OK AND THE COUNTY REGULATIONS
PER SQUARE FOOT.
SAY THAT WHEN IT'S A NUMBER
OK AND THE COUNTY REGULATIONS
OF DWELLING UNITS THAT'S
SAY THAT WHEN IT'S A NUMBER
REQUIRED THE PAYMENT IN LIEU IS
OF DWELLING UNITS THAT'S
BASED ON THE AVERAGE SIZE
REQUIRED THE PAYMENT IN LIEU IS
OF ALL DWELLING UNITS IN THE
BASED ON THE AVERAGE SIZE
PROJECT.
OF ALL DWELLING UNITS IN THE
OK, UNDERSTOOD AND ACTUALLY I
PROJECT.
THINK ONE HUNDRED TWENTY SIX
OK, UNDERSTOOD AND ACTUALLY I
DOLLARS A SQUARE FOOT IS
THINK ONE HUNDRED TWENTY SIX
ACTUALLY THE COMES FROM THE
DOLLARS A SQUARE FOOT IS
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A MARKET
ACTUALLY THE COMES FROM THE
VALUE AND KIND OF THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A MARKET
AFFORDABLE WHICH IS FRANKLY I
VALUE AND KIND OF THE
DON'T KNOW IF IT'S THE RIGHT
AFFORDABLE WHICH IS FRANKLY I
TAKE OFF BECAUSE A LOT
DON'T KNOW IF IT'S THE RIGHT
OF PRICING HAS ACTUALLY CHANGED
TAKE OFF BECAUSE A LOT
IN THE LAST I MEAN THE LAST SIX
OF PRICING HAS ACTUALLY CHANGED
MONTHS REALLY AND AND DON'T GET
IN THE LAST I MEAN THE LAST SIX
ME WRONG, I TOTALLY UNDERSTAND
MONTHS REALLY AND AND DON'T GET
YOU KNOW, THE THE IMPACT TO THE
ME WRONG, I TOTALLY UNDERSTAND
PERFORMER THAT THIS THIS MAY
YOU KNOW, THE THE IMPACT TO THE
HAVE.
PERFORMER THAT THIS THIS MAY
BUT PLEASE DO ALSO UNDERSTAND
HAVE.
THAT THERE IS HESITATION ON
BUT PLEASE DO ALSO UNDERSTAND
THIS PARTICULAR COMMISSION
THAT THERE IS HESITATION ON
BASED ON THE PROPORTIONALITY
THIS PARTICULAR COMMISSION
OF KIND OF LIKE WHAT'S BEING
BASED ON THE PROPORTIONALITY
GIVEN RELATIVE TO WHAT'S BEING
OF KIND OF LIKE WHAT'S BEING
ASKED.
GIVEN RELATIVE TO WHAT'S BEING
AND I AS I HAD INDICATED, IS
ASKED.
PUDI TRULY THE CORRECT
AND I AS I HAD INDICATED, IS
SOLUTION?
PUDI TRULY THE CORRECT
I THINK THAT THAT'S PART OF THE
SOLUTION?
GRAPPLING OF THIS.
I THINK THAT THAT'S PART OF THE
I MEAN RATHER THAN THE ACTUAL
GRAPPLING OF THIS.
THE MERIT OF THE PROJECT IS WE
I MEAN RATHER THAN THE ACTUAL
DON'T WANT TO SET A PRECEDENT
THE MERIT OF THE PROJECT IS WE
IN WHICH WE'RE USING PUDI TO
DON'T WANT TO SET A PRECEDENT
BASICALLY SAY YEAH, I THINK
IN WHICH WE'RE USING PUDI TO
THIS WORKS HERE BECAUSE I THINK
BASICALLY SAY YEAH, I THINK
THIS HELPS TO JUSTIFY THE
THIS WORKS HERE BECAUSE I THINK
DENSITY.
THIS HELPS TO JUSTIFY THE
YOU KNOW, QUESTION THAT WE ARE
DENSITY.
GRAPPLING WITH AND SO TAKING A
YOU KNOW, QUESTION THAT WE ARE
LOOK AT 20 PERCENT RELATIVE TO
GRAPPLING WITH AND SO TAKING A
17 PERCENT YOU'RE LOOKING AT
LOOK AT 20 PERCENT RELATIVE TO
NINE POINT SEVEN MILLION RIGHT
17 PERCENT YOU'RE LOOKING AT
NOW IN CONTRIBUTION.
NINE POINT SEVEN MILLION RIGHT
THAT'S RIGHT ONE TWENTY SEVEN
NOW IN CONTRIBUTION.
ONE TWENTY SIX TAKE OFF SORRY.
THAT'S RIGHT ONE TWENTY SEVEN
AND THEN YOU'RE LOOKING AT I
ONE TWENTY SIX TAKE OFF SORRY.
IT'S A DIFFERENCE OF ABOUT A
AND THEN YOU'RE LOOKING AT I
ONE POINT SEVEN DOLLARS MILLION
IT'S A DIFFERENCE OF ABOUT A
ASK IT'S KIND OF WHAT THAT
ONE POINT SEVEN DOLLARS MILLION
COMES DOWN TO AND SO THAT
ASK IT'S KIND OF WHAT THAT
THAT'S THE PROPORTIONALITY.
COMES DOWN TO AND SO THAT
I'D LIKE TO GET OTHER
THAT'S THE PROPORTIONALITY.
COMMISSIONERS FEEDBACK ON THIS
I'D LIKE TO GET OTHER
AS WE DELIBERATE.
COMMISSIONERS FEEDBACK ON THIS
SO I JUST WANTED TO SET THE
AS WE DELIBERATE.
TABLE CLEARLY SO THAT WE HAVE
SO I JUST WANTED TO SET THE
AN UNDERSTANDING OF THE METRICS
TABLE CLEARLY SO THAT WE HAVE
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT IN THE YOU
AN UNDERSTANDING OF THE METRICS
KNOW AGAIN THERE IS A HURDLE
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT IN THE YOU
THRESHOLD EITHER THERE'S A
KNOW AGAIN THERE IS A HURDLE
PROJECT GOING ON PROJECT NO GO
THRESHOLD EITHER THERE'S A
AND THEY HAVE A LOT OF LPS AND
PROJECT GOING ON PROJECT NO GO
A LOT OF THAT PEOPLE ARE
AND THEY HAVE A LOT OF LPS AND
CONVINCED THAT THIS IS DONE SO
A LOT OF THAT PEOPLE ARE
LIMITED PARTNERS SO THEY HAVE
CONVINCED THAT THIS IS DONE SO
THEM AS GENERAL PARTNERS.
LIMITED PARTNERS SO THEY HAVE
YOU KNOW, THEY'LL PUT ABOUT 10
THEM AS GENERAL PARTNERS.
PERCENT OF THE PROJECT.
YOU KNOW, THEY'LL PUT ABOUT 10
THEY'LL HAVE TO TRACK LP
PERCENT OF THE PROJECT.
CAPITAL AND THEN THEY'LL
THEY'LL HAVE TO TRACK LP
LEVERAGE CONSTRUCTION THAT
CAPITAL AND THEN THEY'LL
ASIDE FROM BUT YEAH.
LEVERAGE CONSTRUCTION THAT
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT.
ASIDE FROM BUT YEAH.
SO JUST KNOWING THE AMOUNT
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT.
OF WORK THEY STILL HAVE IN
SO JUST KNOWING THE AMOUNT
FRONT OF THEM I WANTED TO
OF WORK THEY STILL HAVE IN
INVITE OTHER THOUGHTS AS FAR AS
FRONT OF THEM I WANTED TO
THE PROPORTIONALITY OF THIS SO
INVITE OTHER THOUGHTS AS FAR AS
RIGHT NOW WHAT'S ON THE TABLE
THE PROPORTIONALITY OF THIS SO
TO CLARIFY IS INCREASING THE
RIGHT NOW WHAT'S ON THE TABLE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING REQUIREMENT
TO CLARIFY IS INCREASING THE
YOUR CONTRIBUTION TO TWENTY
AFFORDABLE HOUSING REQUIREMENT
PERCENT OF FLOOR AREA UP FROM
YOUR CONTRIBUTION TO TWENTY
SEVENTEEN WHICH IS CURRENTLY AS
PERCENT OF FLOOR AREA UP FROM
AMENDED IN THE BEAUTY
SEVENTEEN WHICH IS CURRENTLY AS
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS COMMISSIONER
AMENDED IN THE BEAUTY
NILS, I'LL BE REAL CLEAR I
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS COMMISSIONER
DON'T KNOW HOW IT CHANGES MY
NILS, I'LL BE REAL CLEAR I
OVERALL FEELING BUT WITHIN THIS
DON'T KNOW HOW IT CHANGES MY
CONTEXT THE PDS THAT WE'VE SEEN
OVERALL FEELING BUT WITHIN THIS
IN THE PAST I BELIEVE THAT
CONTEXT THE PDS THAT WE'VE SEEN
OFTEN WE WERE SAYING YOU'RE
IN THE PAST I BELIEVE THAT
EXPECTED TO HAVE THE FIFTEEN
OFTEN WE WERE SAYING YOU'RE
PERCENT WHEN YOU EXCEED THAT IS
EXPECTED TO HAVE THE FIFTEEN
AN EXPECTATION AND SO OFTEN
PERCENT WHEN YOU EXCEED THAT IS
LIKE DOUBLE COUNTING VERY
AN EXPECTATION AND SO OFTEN
COMMONLY IN THE PAST WE'VE
LIKE DOUBLE COUNTING VERY
TALKED ABOUT WHAT IS DOUBLE
COMMONLY IN THE PAST WE'VE
COUNTING.
TALKED ABOUT WHAT IS DOUBLE
SO THIS IDEA OF BEING ABLE TO
COUNTING.
COUNT THIS AS A BENEFIT IN THAT
SO THIS IDEA OF BEING ABLE TO
TYPE OF THING OF OF STANDARDS.
COUNT THIS AS A BENEFIT IN THAT
BUT IN MY MIND THIS THEN
TYPE OF THING OF OF STANDARDS.
EXCEEDS THAT TO BE REAL HONEST.
BUT IN MY MIND THIS THEN
THE THE THE TWO PERCENT EXTRA
EXCEEDS THAT TO BE REAL HONEST.
OF THE SIX WORKFORCE HOUSING
THE THE THE TWO PERCENT EXTRA
UNIT ALSO EXCEEDS THAT.
OF THE SIX WORKFORCE HOUSING
BUT IN TERMS
UNIT ALSO EXCEEDS THAT.
OF PROPORTIONALITY, I AND AGAIN
BUT IN TERMS
THIS IS THIS IS GOING FROM VERY
OF PROPORTIONALITY, I AND AGAIN
LOW AVR TO HIGHER YOU KNOW,
THIS IS THIS IS GOING FROM VERY
HIGHER THAN DAEWON.
LOW AVR TO HIGHER YOU KNOW,
AND SO I THINK I WOULD JUST SAY
HIGHER THAN DAEWON.
FROM MY PERSPECTIVE LIKE THAT
AND SO I THINK I WOULD JUST SAY
CERTAINLY ADDS TO THE THE
FROM MY PERSPECTIVE LIKE THAT
BUCKET OF COMMUNITY BENEFIT
CERTAINLY ADDS TO THE THE
SIGNIFICANTLY.
BUCKET OF COMMUNITY BENEFIT
I THINK THERE ARE OTHER
SIGNIFICANTLY.
CRITERIA TOO.
I THINK THERE ARE OTHER
BUT I JUST LET MY TWO SONS
CRITERIA TOO.
THERE.
BUT I JUST LET MY TWO SONS
COMMISSIONER CLARK, UM WOULD IT
THERE.
BE POSSIBLE TO FOR THE NOT TO
COMMISSIONER CLARK, UM WOULD IT
THROW ANOTHER THING IN HERE BUT
BE POSSIBLE TO FOR THE NOT TO
JUST UM THE RESTROOM I DON'T
THROW ANOTHER THING IN HERE BUT
KNOW IF THAT THE ADMINISTRATOR
JUST UM THE RESTROOM I DON'T
OR IF THAT WAS BUT IF THAT
KNOW IF THAT THE ADMINISTRATOR
COULD BE PART OF THIS I THINK
OR IF THAT WAS BUT IF THAT
WE
SHOULD PROBABLY KEEP IT
SEPARATE.
BUT I MEAN I DO APPRECIATE YOU
BRINGING IT UP THROWING 250000
DOLLARS AT A TEMPORARY YOU
DON'T MEASURE.
AND SO I THINK THAT SHOULD BE A
DISCUSSION POINT FOR US BUT IT
SHOULD BE SEPARATE FROM THIS
DISCUSSION.
MOOK'S KELLY, I JUST I RECKON
CONDITION AT THIS POINT TO THE
COMMISSION WOULD BE TO POSTPONE
AND LET THE APPLICANT JUST NOT
SPECIFIC TO THE AMENDMENT
BECAUSE THERE ARE SUCH A
VARIETY OF THINGS PLAY UNITS
VERSUS SQUARE FOOTAGE, THE
EXACT LANGUAGE OF INCORPORATING
PUBLIC ART THE THE THE
PHRASEOLOGY OF THE OF THE
BICYCLE PARKING AND WHAT WOULD
BE MOST BENEFICIAL.
UM, I JUST WANTED TO PUT THAT
OUT THERE THAT IT WOULD SEEM
WISE AND CLEANER AND I THINK
WOULD PROVIDE A CLEAR PROPOSAL
FOR THE COMMISSION TO
REGARDLESS OF THE SPECIFIC
AMENDMENT TO REQUEST AN AMEND A
POSTPONEMENT AND PERHAPS A
SUGGESTED PACKAGE OF CHANGES
FROM THE PETITIONER UNDERSTOOD
.
I THIS IS I WOULD LIKE TO ASK
THE PETITIONER SOMETHING
BECAUSE SHE SAID OH NO, I JUST
FEEL LIKE I TOLD YOU I WOULD
LIKE TO DISCUSS THERE'S A
PARTICULAR REASON YOU GUYS
BROUGHT THIS ON THE TABLE TODAY
REGARDLESS OF THE STAFF'S
RECOMMENDATION.
COULD YOU GIVE US SOME IDEA
OF WHAT MADE YOU TO THAT
DECISION?
I CAN JUMP IN A LITTLE BIT AS
WELL NOT TO CUT YOU OFF BUT UM
WHEN WE WHEN ANY PROJECT THIS
IS A GENERIC STATEMENT WHEN WE
ARE WORKING THROUGH ISSUES,
REVISED PLANS, TECHNICAL
DETAILS AND SO FORTH, WE TRY TO
BRING THE PLANNING COMMISSION
THINGS TO APPROVABLE.
AND SO WHEN SO WE WOULD YOU
WORK BACK AND FORTH.
BUT WHAT WE DO SOMETIMES GET TO
A POINT WHERE THERE'S PROBABLY
NOTHING UNLESS YOU CHOP OFF SIX
STORIES WE WILL NOT GET TO THE
POINT WHERE BOTH STAFF AND THE
PETITIONER AGREE.
AND SO IT WAS A MUTUAL DECISION
TO TO THEN SEND THIS TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
AND SO IT WASN'T SOLELY THEIR
DECISION.
IT WAS WE WE NEEDED TO STOP
GOING AROUND AND AROUND.
WE DID THREE ROUNDS OF REVIEW
SO ON BEHALF OF THEM THAT
THAT'S WHERE IT CAME FROM.
GOTCHA.
SO IT'S AN INTENTIONAL DECISION
SAYING OH GOSH YES.
LET'S SEE HOW THIS GOES.
AND TO BE PERFECTLY CLEAR, THE
PROCESS HERE WOULD STILL BE
THAT PLANNING WHATEVER PLANNING
COMMISSION SAYS THE
RECOMMENDATION IT STILL GOES TO
A CITY COUNCIL, RIGHT?
IS THAT CORRECT?
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE ARE CLEAR IN PROCESS.
SO OK, UNDERSTOOD TO CLARIFY
WHERE WE ARE CURRENTLY.
MR MOORE, DID YOU WANT TO ADD
SOMETHING?
YOU KNOW AGAIN I JUST WANT TO
SAY SO FAR WHAT WE'VE HEARD
GASTRECTOMY A PERCENTAGE OF THE
AFFORDABLE CLARIFYING THE
CONCEPT THESE ARE THE KINDS
OF THINGS THAT ARE TAX
DOCUMENTS THAT THAT WE CAN MAKE
INFORMED ON TO STAFF IN A
COUPLE OF DAYS.
AND SO THAT'S A THAT'S A FAIRLY
QUICK TURNAROUND IF THERE'S
OTHER THINGS THAT YOU WANTED US
TO CHANGE ABOUT THE SETBACK FOR
DESIGN OR THINGS LIKE THAT, IT
NOW HAS TO GO BACK TO FINANCE.
THAT HAS TO GO BACK TO ALL THE
REST OF THE STATE DEPARTMENT.
IT TAKES A LONG TIME AND WE'RE
UP AGAINST DEADLINES.
SO IN DEFERENCE TO HIS
COMMENTS, IF THEY'RE LIMITED TO
SIMPLE THINGS THAT AFFECT
DOCUMENT CHANGE, WE CAN DO THAT
RELATIVELY QUICKLY AND WE'LL BE
ABLE TO DO WHAT WE'VE HEARD.
OK, GOTCHA.
TO CLARIFY, ARE YOU AGREEABLE
TO TWENTY PERCENT?
IS THAT WHAT YOU WERE SAYING?
YES.
TO I THINK THAT'S A HARD ONE TO
ANSWER UNTIL I UNDERSTAND IF
THAT'S THE LAST ONE TO ANSWER.
SO MOSTLY I'D LIKE TO NEGOTIATE
WITH CHIPS ON THE TABLE.
NO I THINK THAT'S A FAIR
ANSWER.
SO RIGHT NOW WE AT THE
AMENDMENT STAGE OF APPLYING A
TWENTY PERCENT OR INCREASING
THE PAYMENT IN LIEU TO OF THE
FIVE REQUIRING THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING TO BE TWENTY PERCENT,
ANY OTHER COMMENTS DISCUSSIONS
OH OH YES.
YES COMMISSIONER.
RIGHT.
SO MY QUESTION IS THIS INCREASE
FROM SIX POINT THREE TO ELEVEN
POINT FOUR IF OUR WAS THAT
WOULD INCREASE THE PER UNIT
ABOUT EIGHTEEN THOUSAND SEVEN
HUNDRED WHO PAYS FOR THE WHO
PAYS?
I THINK THAT'S ASKING IF WE'RE
PAYING FOR THAT NOW GENERALLY
THESE THINGS ARE PASSED DOWN SO
THERE THAT THE PERSON WHO WAS
RENTING THAT UNIT IS GOING TO
HAVE TO SORT OUT THOSE COSTS
FOR YOU TO MAKE YOUR I'M SORRY.
SO I'M JUST I'M ASKING BECAUSE
OUR TAX BURDEN ALREADY IS AT
LIKE SEVEN HUNDRED DOLLARS PER
MONTH PER THE WAR AND NOW THIS
IS HERE.
SO I'M JUST I'M JUST INTERESTED
IN LIKE HOW DOES THIS WORK?
THIS IS MOSTLY FOR ME TO
UNDERSTAND HOW YOU WOULD ABSORB
SOMETHING LIKE THIS TO BE TO BE
PERFECTLY FRANK I MEAN WE DO
NEED TO LOOK AT THAT.
OK, CAN I SAY THAT WE HAVE ALL
THE CONSTRUCTION COSTS WORKED
OUT AT THIS STAGE?
NO, THAT WOULD BE UNWISE OF US.
WE STILL HAVE A LOT OF PROJECT
TO DEVELOP AND A LOT
OF ENGINEERING TO UNDERGO AND
WE ARE WORKING WITH A GROUP
THAT'S DONE AN EXCELLENT JOB
FOR THE STATE AND TURNER
CONSTRUCTION.
BUT YOU KNOW, AS EVERYONE
KNOWS, WE'VE SEEN CONSTRUCTION
INCREASE THREE PLUS PERCENT A
MONTH FOR THE LAST SEVERAL
YEARS.
SO IT'S VERY DIFFICULT QUESTION
FOR ME TO ANSWER BUT I DO
APPRECIATE THE THOUGHT PROCESS
BEHIND IT.
YEAH, WE WOULD HAVE TO STUDY
THAT FOR THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS WITH RESPECT
TO THIS LATE TEST AMENDMENT
CURRENTLY ON THE TABLE?
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT SAID
DON'T KNOW THAT I SUPPORT THAT
RIGHT NOW BECAUSE I THINK THAT
IT JUST THROWS A LOT
OF UNCERTAINTY INTO YOU.
I MEAN MY MY MY ASSUMPTION IN
READING ALL THIS TONIGHT IS
LIKE BUT MY HOPE IS THAT THINGS
LIKE MAXED OUT THEIR PERFORMING
WITH ALL OF THE THINGS AND ALL
THESE OTHER THINGS AND SO I
JUST KNOW HOW THIS WOULD BE
POSSIBLE.
I DON'T I DON'T KNOW I DON'T
REMEMBER HOW MUCH MORE WE'RE
TALKING NOW LIKE TWO TO SEVEN
MILLION OR SO AND THAT'S A LOT.
SO I DON'T I EDITION OF ONE
POINT SEVEN THE OF TEN POINT
SEVENTY SIX POINT THREE FROM
FROM THE SEVENTEEN PERCENT TO
TWENTY PERCENT SO CERTAINLY
THREE SIX ONE POINT SEVENTY
FOUR IS IT I DON'T I I DON'T
ACTUALLY WHO CAME UP WITH THE
SIX ANYWAY LET'S BE HONEST IT'S
MORE MILLIONS SO I DON'T THINK
I'M GOING TO VOTE YES TO THAT
EIGHT POINT FIVE PRETTY SIMPLE
TAKE OFF OK.
ALL RIGHT THANK YOU.
YEAH I'M USING ONE HUNDRED
TWENTY SIX SQUARE FOOT TAKE OFF
UNLESS SOME ACTUALLY BECAUSE
SOME OF THE SQUARE FOOTAGE IS
COMMERCIAL AND INVARIABLY I'M
GUESSING THE ENTIRE FOUR
HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET ISN'T BEING CALCULATED ON
THE FLOOR AREA.
IS THAT WOULD THAT BE A CORRECT
ASSUMPTION DESPITE WHAT DOESN'T
SUBMIT TO RELIGIONS?
I BELIEVE IT'S MORE ACCURATE TO
SAY THE OFFER WAS FOR 15
PERCENT OF THE DWELLING UNITS
WOULD BE WOULD HAVE BEEN
DESIGNATED AFFORDABLE AND
THEY'RE OFFERING A PAYMENT IN
LIEU OF OF THAT.
AND THEN THE CODE SAYS THE
FORMULA IS BASED ON AVERAGE
DWELLING SIZE.
AM I CORRECT?
OK, YES.
SO MY TAKE OFF MIGHT BE A
LITTLE OFF RIGHT NOW I'M JUST
TAKING THE FORM FIFTY THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET AND JUST DOING A
DIRECT APPLICATION OF THAT SO
OK COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT,
THANK YOU FOR THE COMMENT AND
THEN COMMISSIONER B SO I THINK
FOR ME THE PETITIONERS CAME
WITH A PD AND WITH THE PD COMES
WITH PUBLIC BENEFIT AND PUBLIC
BENEFIT IS NOT ALWAYS BUT OFTEN
MONETARY IN SOME FORM WHETHER
IT'S MORE SUSTAINABILITY OR
AFFORDABILITY OR SO I THINK I'M
NOT CONCERNED ABOUT THE IF THE
CHANGE IN THE MONEY IS SO MUCH
BECAUSE I THINK WHAT WE'VE BEEN
SAYING IS THAT YOU'RE NOT
SHOWING TO US NECESSARILY A
BENEFIT BUT A PD WOULD BE OVER
A A STANDARD ZONING CODE SO I
THINK THAT THIS IS PART OF IT.
THIS DISCUSSION IS PART
OF WHERE DO WE THINK THAT THAT
LIMIT IS?
WHERE IS THAT WHEN DO WE THINK
THE BENEFIT IS ENOUGH THAT IT
GOES FARTHER THAN THEY DO ON
OUR D TO AND SO I THINK THAT'S
PART OF THIS IS JUST THAT THERE
IS MOST LIKELY A MONEY MONEY AT
PLAY IN WHAT IS CONSIDERED
BENEFIT AND I KNOW THAT NOT
EVERYBODY THINKS THAT THROWING
MONEY AT IT IS GOOD BUT WE'RE
LOOKING MONEY FOR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING WHICH IS SOMETHING WE
DESPERATELY NEED.
IN ADDITION TO MARKET RATE
HOUSING.
SO I THINK FOR ME I I VALUE
THIS DISCUSSION AND I REALIZE
THAT IT IS A BURDEN BUT IT IS
ALSO YOU'RE ASKING FOR A PUDI
AND I WATCHED THE
MARCH VERSION
OF THIS AND THERE WAS QUESTION
THEN THAT ARE STILL ON THE
TABLE IS THERE ENOUGH PUBLIC
BENEFIT?
SO I THINK IT'S REASONABLE THAT
WE'RE HAVING THIS DISCUSSION
THAT'S KIND OF WHERE I FALL ON
THIS IS IS YES, IT DOES AFFECT
THE PROJECT.
THAT'S THE POINT I'M THANK YOU,
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE I SHOULDN'T
JUST THROW A WRENCH IN HERE SO
THAT'S NEGOTIATING.
IT'S REALLY IMPOSSIBLE FOR
EITHER SIDE TO KNOW 17 20
PERCENT ON THE FLY WHAT I MEAN
THE DIFFERENCE MIGHT BE
NEGLIGIBLE, MAY NOT BE BUT I DO
WORRY ABOUT DESIGN NOT JUST
LIKE GETTING PASSED DOWN TO
BECAUSE YOU KNOW WE ARE
DIFFERENT MARKET THAN WHAT MOST
STUDENTS ARE HERE FROM EAST
COAST RUBBER RUNS ARE HIGHER
CAN ABSORB A LITTLE BIT HIGHER
.
I GUESS I START TO WORRY ABOUT
DESIGN CHOICES.
SOME OF THESE NICE YOU KNOW,
FEATURES AND MATERIALS AND
THINGS LIKE THAT STARTING TO
GET CHIPPED INTO THE MORE
THINGS JUST KIND OF ADD UP THE
COST.
SO THAT'S I GUESS JUST TO KIND
OF SAY I DON'T KNOW WHETHER
WHICH NUMBER IS RIGHT.
I DON'T THINK ANYBODY IN THIS
ROOM CAN REALLY KNOW WHICH IS
THE CORRECT ANSWER AT THIS
POINT.
SO I THINK IT'S JUST COMES DOWN
TO RATHER MAKE A DECISION NOW
OR DELAY.
I MEAN THAT'S JUST VERY
UNHELPFUL.
JUST ONE FOR SURE.
NO, THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
ONE OF THE THINGS I WILL SAY IS
AN EASY KIND OF TAKE OFF WOULD
BE TO SAY PROBABLY IT'S
PROBABLY ABOUT FOUR OR FIFTY
FIVE HUNDRED BUCKS SQUARE FOOT
RIGHT.
TO BUILD THIS WHOLE THING.
TWO HUNDRED TWENTY FIVE DOLLARS
MILLION PROJECT ONE POINT SEVEN
DOLLARS MILLION WHAT YOU'RE
LOOKING AT ABOUT SEVENTY SIX
PIPS IN TERMS OF AN INCREASE.
I MEAN AS FAR AS YOU KNOW AGAIN
THRESHOLDS IN WHAT YOU GUYS
HAVE TO DO ON YOUR OWN AS WELL
AS WELL AS LIKE ENGINEERING
THERE'S A LOT OF COMPLEXITIES
TO THIS AND SO ULTIMATELY WE
HAVE TO DECIDE WHETHER WE
BELIEVE PWD IS THE APPROPRIATE
YOU KNOW, A APPROACH HERE
WHETHER THAT WE HAVE THE A
SUFFICIENT BASIS FOR GRANTING
THE PUDI THAT IS THE CRUX
OF THE QUESTION AND WHAT IS
CURRENTLY AT QUESTION RIGHT NOW
IS 17 PERCENT SUFFICIENT AND
SINCE 15 IS KIND OF THE
BASELINE EXPECTATION OF WHEN
YOU COME TO A PUDI IS THE
MINIMUM EQUIVALENT TO THE WHAT
THE 13 X OF DENSITY THAT WE'RE
GETTING WHICH WE HAVE SAID ALSO
AS A COMMUNITY AS A PRIORITY.
SO WE HAVE TO DECIDE WHAT ARE
WE GOING TO RECOMMEND THIS AS A
GROUP NOW STAFF YOU KNOW, WE
HAVE A LOT OF DEFERENCE TO THE
WORK THAT THEY DO.
I MEAN THEY HAVE BEEN HERE
THERE GATE KEEPERS OF WISDOM SO
WE COULD GIVE A LOT OF WEIGHT
AND YOU KNOW, THEIR THEIR
RECOMMENDATION WAS THAT THERE
WASN'T SUFFICIENCY TO JUSTIFY
THE POD.
SO I DON'T KNOW THAT THERE'S A
RIGHT OR WRONG ANSWER HERE
RIGHT.
SO THAT'S THAT'S WHAT WE ALL
ULTIMATELY HAVE TO MAKE A
DETERMINATION AND THEN
SOMETIMES SIMPLICITY WE WON'T
KNOW IF WE GET IT RIGHT.
RIGHT.
WHAT I WILL SAY IS THAT AS FOR
ME PERSONALLY, I THINK A LOT
OF THE FEATURES OF THIS PROJECT
ARE EXCELLENT.
I THINK THE THE GROUND FLOOR
ACTIVATIONS MATERIALITY IS
GREAT.
I WOULD CERTAINLY FEEL A LITTLE
BETTER ABOUT I THINK OR NO DISH
HAS INDICATED THAT SHE WOULD BE
MORE FAVORABLE TOWARDS THIS
PROJECT IF THIS WAS AMENDED SO
THAT THAT'S WHERE WE ARE
CURRENTLY.
SO ANY OTHER THOUGHTS I'M
TRYING TO MAKE SURE THAT I'M
SUMMARIZING EVERYTHING
CORRECTLY WITH THAT TO CLARIFY
,WE ARE CURRENTLY VOTING ON A
PUDI SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATION
AMENDMENT TO STATE THAT THE
AFFORDABLE REQUIRE OR THE
CONTRIBUTION THE AFFORDABLE
REQUIREMENT WOULD BE TWENTY
PERCENT OF DWELLING UNITS UP
SEVENTEEN COMMISSIONER BILLS SO
WHAT'S HAPPENING IN MY HEAD
IT'S JUST SCARY TO LET YOU ALL
KNOW ABOUT THIS IS AGAIN AT
WHAT POINT DO THE PUBLIC
BENEFITS MAKE THIS A DIFFERENT
PROJECT THAT IS NOT ACTUALLY
POSSIBLE IN ANOTHER ZONING
DISTRICT AND THAT IS WHERE
THAT'S WHERE WHEN DOES IT
EXTEND BEYOND YEAH.
SO BEING THE MODEL OF RAISING
THE MODEL OF SUSTAINABILITY
MAKES IT A DIFFERENT PROJECT
I'M THINKING ABOUT LIKE WHAT IS
THE THIS IS NOT A MODEL
OF SUSTAINABILITY IT'S GOING ON
BUT CERTAINLY NOT THERE BUT IT
ALSO PROVIDES AFFORDABLE ABOVE
AND BEYOND AND SO THAT'S THE
BALANCE IN MY HEAD.
I'LL BE REAL HONEST THAT EASIER
FOR ME TO MAKE THE CASE IN MY
MIND THAT IT IS IF IT IS ALWAYS
CONSIDERED IT WAS THE MODEL
OF SUSTAINABILITY THEN I WOULD
THAT I WOULD HONESTLY NOT
NECESSARILY VOTE FOR THIS
ADDITION BECAUSE I ALREADY KNOW
THAT THERE WILL BE
CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND BECAUSE OF ITS
VERY NATURE AND AGAIN THAT
EXTENDS BEYOND WHAT IS POSSIBLE
IN THE NORMAL ZONING DISTRICT
DON'T HAVE ZONING DISTRICT THAT
REQUIRES THAT MODEL
SUSTAINABILITY'S TO THE POINT
OF LIKE WHAT ELSE ARE YOU GOING
TO ASK FOR WEIGHING IN MY MIND
WOULD BECAUSE I KNOW THAT YOU
CAN'T ASK FOR BECAUSE THAT'S
NOT REALISTIC AND SO I'LL JUST
SAY THAT'S WHERE I COME DOWN ON
THIS.
SO I PERSONALLY AGAIN YOU
ALREADY KNOW BUT I DON'T I'M
BUT I'M YOUR I MEAN BECAUSE I
DON'T THINK IT HAS MEANT THAT
THE THING IS DIFFERENT THAN
WHAT IS ALLOWED IN ANOTHER
ZONING DISTRICT.
I DON'T LIKE THAT YOU CAN'T DO
THAT NO ZONING DISTRICT IF IT
GETS OVER THE HUMP LIKE OK.
BUT I THINK REALLY IN MY MIND
TO GET IT OVER THE HUMP IT'S
GOT TO BE ON THE SUSTAINABILITY
SIDE.
I WOULD VOTE FOR THIS AMENDMENT
HERE BECAUSE IF ALL PEOPLE
AREN'T IN THAT BOAT LIKE I
THINK THAT THERE'S SOME
ADDITIONAL COMMUNITY BENEFIT
THAT'S NEEDED AND THAT GETS ME
THERE.
SO I JUST THINK HE'S THAT I DO
I DON'T YEAH.
SO IF THEY IF 20 PERCENT TURNS
OUT TO JUST BE NOT FEASIBLE
WITH A COST THEN THEY CAN COME
BECAUSE FOR CITY COUNCIL AND
THERE CAN BE FURTHER OR IS THAT
A MAJOR SETBACK?
WELL I THINK THEY WOULD JUST
PROBABLY SAY YEAH THIS DOESN'T
MAKE SENSE ANY SO CLEARLY THEY
HAVE SOME OBVIOUSLY TIME TIME
IS ALSO EXTREMELY IMPORTANT AND
SO THAT GRAVITY UNFORTUNATELY
WITH THIS IS WHAT HAPPENS WHEN
YOU ASK FOR A POD.
RIGHT.
SO THIS IS KIND OF IN A FREE
FOR ALL SO YEAH, THE HERE'S
IT'S NOT LIKE IT CAN'T
NECESSARILY BE PULLED BACK.
CITY COUNCIL CAN REALLY AT THE
END OF THE DAY TO YOU KNOW,
AMEND THAT THE TABLE I IMAGINE
SO YEAH.
PROCEDURAL QUESTION.
YES.
MR. MORRISON.
AT THE TIME AND MY CLIENT'S RUN
YES.
THE NUMBERS OVER THE NEXT
AT THE TIME AND MY CLIENT'S RUN
COUPLE OF WEEKS AND THAT'S AN
THE NUMBERS OVER THE NEXT
UNTENABLE PROBLEM BUT IT
COUPLE OF WEEKS AND THAT'S AN
DEPENDS A LOT AT SEVENTEEN.
UNTENABLE PROBLEM BUT IT
DO WE HAVE TO COME BACK HERE TO
DEPENDS A LOT AT SEVENTEEN.
GET A DIFFERENT RECOMMENDATION
DO WE HAVE TO COME BACK HERE TO
AT SEVENTEEN?
GET A DIFFERENT RECOMMENDATION
I THINK IT WOULD BE THAT YOU
AT SEVENTEEN?
YOU WOULD BE AT CITY COUNCIL TO
I THINK IT WOULD BE THAT YOU
REQUEST THAT IT'S AMENDED AT
YOU WOULD BE AT CITY COUNCIL TO
THE SEVENTEEN PERCENT MARK FOR
REQUEST THAT IT'S AMENDED AT
FEEDBACK FROM CITY COUNCIL THAT
THE SEVENTEEN PERCENT MARK FOR
WE COULDN'T SEND STUFF TO THEM
FEEDBACK FROM CITY COUNCIL THAT
TO BE AMENDED.
WE COULDN'T SEND STUFF TO THEM
OH YEAH.
TO BE AMENDED.
THEY KICKED ABOUT THAT ONE
OH YEAH.
BECAUSE WE THOUGHT THE NOTICE
THEY KICKED ABOUT THAT ONE
THAT CITY COUNCIL WOULD BE
BECAUSE WE THOUGHT THE NOTICE
SUFFICIENT BUT THEN IT WASN'T
THAT CITY COUNCIL WOULD BE
SO I'M JUST LIKE ARE THERE
SUFFICIENT BUT THEN IT WASN'T
RULES THAT WE DON'T PERFECTLY
SO I'M JUST LIKE ARE THERE
UNDERSTAND?
RULES THAT WE DON'T PERFECTLY
WE WOULDN'T ALLOW THEM TO DO
UNDERSTAND?
THAT?
WE WOULDN'T ALLOW THEM TO DO
UM WELL THAT THAT WAS A LITTLE
THAT?
BIT APPLES AND ORANGES BECAUSE
UM WELL THAT THAT WAS A LITTLE
THAT WAS ADDING ENTIRELY NEW
BIT APPLES AND ORANGES BECAUSE
COMPONENTS TO A PREVIOUSLY
THAT WAS ADDING ENTIRELY NEW
NOTICED PUBLIC HEARING AND BUT
COMPONENTS TO A PREVIOUSLY
THIS IS IT'S MY OPINION THAT IF
NOTICED PUBLIC HEARING AND BUT
THE IF YOU WHAT YOU'RE DOING IS
THIS IS IT'S MY OPINION THAT IF
YOU ARE SAYING WE RECOMMEND
THE IF YOU WHAT YOU'RE DOING IS
APPROVAL OF THIS PROJECT
YOU ARE SAYING WE RECOMMEND
SUBJECT TO CHANGING AND ADDING
APPROVAL OF THIS PROJECT
AND ADDING A PUBLIC ART
SUBJECT TO CHANGING AND ADDING
ELEMENT, CHANGING THE FORMULA
AND ADDING A PUBLIC ART
FOR BIKE PARKING AND AT THIS
ELEMENT, CHANGING THE FORMULA
POINT CHANGING THE PERCENTAGE
FOR BIKE PARKING AND AT THIS
FROM 15 TO 17 PERCENT OF THE
POINT CHANGING THE PERCENTAGE
NUMBER OF DWELLING UNITS BEING
FROM 15 TO 17 PERCENT OF THE
THAT WELL NO WE HAVEN'T DONE
NUMBER OF DWELLING UNITS BEING
THAT YET.
THAT WELL NO WE HAVEN'T DONE
SO SO RIGHT NOW ON THE TABLE
THAT YET.
YOU HAVE YOUR ON YOUR WAY TO
SO SO RIGHT NOW ON THE TABLE
RECOMMENDING APPROVAL SUBJECT
YOU HAVE YOUR ON YOUR WAY TO
TO THE PUBLIC ART.
RECOMMENDING APPROVAL SUBJECT
SO THAT PERTAINS TO THE BIKE
TO THE PUBLIC ART.
PARKING AND SUBJECT TO STRIKING
SO THAT PERTAINS TO THE BIKE
THE ENTIRE ALL LANGUAGE WORK
PARKING AND SUBJECT TO STRIKING
FORCE HOUSING AND CHANGING THE
THE ENTIRE ALL LANGUAGE WORK
15 TO 17 PERCENT AFFORDABLE
FORCE HOUSING AND CHANGING THE
HOUSING AND IT SEEMS LIKE
15 TO 17 PERCENT AFFORDABLE
YOU'RE ON YOUR WAY TO FURTHER
HOUSING AND IT SEEMS LIKE
CHANGING 17 TO 20 FOR
YOU'RE ON YOUR WAY TO FURTHER
DISCUSSION PURPOSES.
CHANGING 17 TO 20 FOR
SAY IT THEN YOU VOTE YOU TO
DISCUSSION PURPOSES.
PROVE THAT THIRD AMENDMENT AND
SAY IT THEN YOU VOTE YOU TO
THEN YOU APPROVE THE FINAL
PROVE THAT THIRD AMENDMENT AND
MOTION SO IT WILL GO TO PLAN.
THEN YOU APPROVE THE FINAL
IT WILL GO TO CITY COUNCIL WITH
MOTION SO IT WILL GO TO PLAN.
THAT RECOMMENDATION IF THEY
IT WILL GO TO CITY COUNCIL WITH
CHANGE THE PLAN IN SOME WAY
THAT RECOMMENDATION IF THEY
THEN THEY ARE NOT MEETING YOUR
CHANGE THE PLAN IN SOME WAY
RECOMMENDATION AND THAT WOULD
THEN THEY ARE NOT MEETING YOUR
HAVE TO BE MADE CLEAR TO CITY
RECOMMENDATION AND THAT WOULD
COUNCIL.
HAVE TO BE MADE CLEAR TO CITY
CITY COUNCIL CAN VOTE ON IT
COUNCIL.
EITHER WAY THEY CAN CHANGE IT
CITY COUNCIL CAN VOTE ON IT
BACK TO SEVENTEEN.
EITHER WAY THEY CAN CHANGE IT
THEY CAN CHANGE IT DOWN TO TEN
BACK TO SEVENTEEN.
PERCENT.
THEY CAN CHANGE IT DOWN TO TEN
BUT WHAT IT CLOUDS YOUR
PERCENT.
RECOMMENDATION BECAUSE WHAT YOU
BUT WHAT IT CLOUDS YOUR
ARE SAYING IS YOUR APPROVAL IS
RECOMMENDATION BECAUSE WHAT YOU
CONTINGENT UPON TWENTY PERCENT.
ARE SAYING IS YOUR APPROVAL IS
SO THEY WOULD BE GOING TO
CONTINGENT UPON TWENTY PERCENT.
COUNTY CITY COUNCIL NOT MEETING
SO THEY WOULD BE GOING TO
YOUR RECOMMENDATION.
COUNTY CITY COUNCIL NOT MEETING
YES.
YOUR RECOMMENDATION.
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH SO I THINK
YES.
THIS WILL CLARIFY AND NOT
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH SO I THINK
CONFUSE IF PEOPLE ARE FEELING
THIS WILL CLARIFY AND NOT
NOT SO GOOD ABOUT RAISING IT.
CONFUSE IF PEOPLE ARE FEELING
YOU CAN BE SURE THAT I CAN
NOT SO GOOD ABOUT RAISING IT.
BRING THIS UP AGAIN A COUNCIL
YOU CAN BE SURE THAT I CAN
RIGHT SO YOU CAN SAY WE DON'T
BRING THIS UP AGAIN A COUNCIL
WANT TO SEND IT FORWARD LIKE
RIGHT SO YOU CAN SAY WE DON'T
AND IT CAN ALSO HAPPEN THAT
WANT TO SEND IT FORWARD LIKE
OTHER COUNCIL MEMBERS SAY WE
AND IT CAN ALSO HAPPEN THAT
DON'T AGREE WITH WHAT OUR
OTHER COUNCIL MEMBERS SAY WE
COUNCIL LIAISON DID AND SO
DON'T AGREE WITH WHAT OUR
WE'RE GOING TO TAKE THAT OFF
COUNCIL LIAISON DID AND SO
ANYTHING CAN COUNCILOR CAN DO
WE'RE GOING TO TAKE THAT OFF
THOSE THINGS.
ANYTHING CAN COUNCILOR CAN DO
SO YEAH,
THANK YOU FOR THE
CLARIFICATION.
JUST DOES THAT HELP MR. MOORE?
BASICALLY CITY COUNCIL CAN
REVERT BACK TO SEVENTEEN
PERCENT ESSENTIALLY THAT IT
WOULD BE GOING AGAINST THE
RECOMMENDATION.
YEAH, DOES THAT MAKE SENSE JUST
NORTH OF CONSTRAINTS I DON'T
WANT TO HAVE I DON'T THINK IT
WOULD HAVE TO COME BACK THE
PLANNING COMMISSION IF THERE
WOULD IF YOU GUYS BASICALLY
SAID YEAH, I DON'T THINK THIS
IS WORKING OUT BUT I THINK YOU
WOULD HAVE A BURDEN
OF PRESENTING THAT CASE AND
SAYING WE'VE GOT A HURDLE
OF YOUR SIXTEEN PERCENT TO TRY
TO MAKE THIS WORK.
SO THERE'S A LOT
OF UNCERTAINTY, UNCERTAINTIES
WE GET IT SO SO ANY OTHER
DISCUSSION ON THIS PARTICULAR
AMENDMENT TO INCREASE THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING REQUIREMENT
TO TWENTY PERCENT FROM
SEVENTEEN?
IF NOT, I THINK WE CAN GO TO A
VOICE ROLL CALL MISKELLY
, WOULD
YOU LIKE ME TO REPEAT THE UM
AMENDMENT NUMBER THREE AS I
UNDERSTAND IT?
YES.
THAT WOULD BE HELPFUL TO
REQUIRE IN THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS.
TWENTY PERCENT OF DWELLING
UNITS OR EQUIVALENT IN PAYMENT
IN LIEU TO BE PROVIDED AS
AFFORDABLE HOUSING DWELLING
UNITS.
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS WOULD
REMOVE REFERENCE TO SIX WORK
FORCE HOUSING UNITS ALONG WITH
OTHER MENTIONS OF WORK FORCE
HOUSING ON THAT AMENDMENT
COMMENSURATELY.
YES COMMISSIONER WISCH NO MR.
HAMMERSCHMIDT NO COMMISSIONER
DISH YES.
SORRY COUNCILMAN BRITISH
COMMISSIONER CLARKE NO I HEARD
NO COMMISSIONER MILLS NO AND
THE COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE
YES A I HAVE FOUR NO'S AND
THREE IS THAT MOTION AND THAT
AMENDMENT FAILS.
OK, WE ARE BACK TO THE ORIGINAL
MOTION.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL AS AMENDED AS AMENDED.
YES.
BUT NOT INCLUDING THE TWENTY
COMMISSIONER I AM REFERRING TO
REALLY TINY ANYTHING ON THE
SUPPLEMENTAL BECAUSE I WAS
LOOKING AT THEM AT WHAT POINT
ON SUSTAINABILITY REQUIREMENTS
RENEWABLE ENERGY DOES KILOWATT
HOURS GET PUT IN BECAUSE RIGHT
NOW IT'S BLANK BECAUSE I'M NOT
OK WITH ZERO IT GETS PUT IN AS
SOON AS POSSIBLE.
IT WILL BE COMPLETED BEFORE IT
GOES TO THE CITY COUNCIL AND IT
WILL BE ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
FIVE THOUSAND OR WHATEVER IT IS
IT WILL BE WHAT WAS WRITTEN ON
THE DOCUMENTATION UNLESS YOU
AMEND IT FIVE MILLION
KILOMETERS AND THEN THE
ELECTRIFICATION PIECE WE TALKED
ABOUT THE DISCREPANCIES
EVERYWHERE AND IN HERE IT JUST
SAYS NO NATURAL GAS CONNECTION
EXCEPT FOR EMERGENCY BACKUP
POWER.
BUT THEN THERE WAS THE THING
WITH THE WATER HEATER SO DENHA
IN WHAT WHAT WAS IT, HUH?
THAT WOULD BE US.
WELL, WE WOULD AMEND IT.
YOU WOULD AMEND IT.
IT NEEDS TO BE CHANGED.
I DON'T WANT TO CHANGE IT.
I WANT IT I WANT IT TO BE THIS
SO I DON'T KNOW WHERE WE GO
FROM HERE.
I WOULD JUST ADD BUT I DO
APPRECIATE THE EFFORT TO TRY
AND PUSH THIS TO ALL ELECTRIC
AND RECOGNIZE THEIR LOAD
CAPACITY ISSUES WITH RESPECT
YOU DON'T WANT YOUR RESIDENTS
HAVING COLD WATER SO I DO
PLEASE ALSO HEAR US WHEN WE SAY
I MEAN THE NATURAL GAS
INFRASTRUCTURE WHEN IT GOES
AREA PROBABLY NOT GOING TO GO
AWAY BUT AS LONG AS THAT
THERE'S EFFORTS BEING MADE TO
TRY AND AGAIN MOVE TOWARDS THAT
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE MY
POSITION ON THAT ONE CLEAR.
I'M LIKE YEAH.
I MEAN THAT WOULD BE A VERY BAD
SITUATION IN WHICH YOU 7:00
A.M. OF RESIDENTS CALLING
SAYING HEY SO SO I CERTAINLY
UNDERSTAND THAT.
OK, SO RIGHT NOW WE ARE AT THE
ORIGINAL MOTION OF THE POD
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS AS
WELL AS A SITE PLAN.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION?
I KNOW THAT WE WANTED TO BRING
UP THE 250000 DOLLARS PUBLIC
RESTROOM.
IS THAT WHAT YOU'RE GOING TO
TALK ABOUT?
OK, LET ME JUST INTRODUCE THAT
CONCEPT PLANNER DALIO DID
MENTION IT'S A TEMPORARY
PROGRAM THAT MAY GET
DISCONTINUED.
SO IS THAT A PUBLIC BENEFIT TO
THROW A QUARTER MILLION DOLLARS
OF THAT SOMETHING THAT MIGHT
GET DISCONTINUED?
I MY THOUGHTS I'M NOT GOING TO
MAKE A FORMAL MOTION BUT COULD
WE MAKE THAT A GENERAL
CONTRIBUTION TO THE D.A. OR TO
SERVICES IN TOWN OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT?
I THINK WE WOULD.
CAN I ASK THE PETITIONER WHERE
DID THAT ORIGINAL WAS THAT IN
DISCUSSIONS WITH PLENTY CITY
ADMINISTRATOR?
YEAH, OK, GOTCHA.
UNDERSTAFF OK OK.
DO WE HAVE ANY MOTIONS TO AMEND
IT.
NO OK WE'RE GOING TO LEAVE THAT
ONE.
IT SOUNDS LIKE WE'RE GOING TO
LEAVE THAT ONE ALONE OK ANY
OTHER THOUGHTS COMMENTS
QUESTIONS.
I KNOW COMMISSIONER MILLS THIS
COULD NOT BE SECONDED BUT AGAIN
BECAUSE WE'RE IN THE LIKE WHAT
WOULD GET US I AM I'M
ATTRIBUTING COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT TO DRAW MY
ATTENTION TO THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGS AND I'M THE ONE THAT NEEDS
TO BE AMENDED ANYWAY BECAUSE
IT'S NOT DOABLE.
I'M JUST GOING TO SAY I WOULD
FEEL COMFORTABLE VOTING FOR
THIS TONIGHT IF THAT IF THE
ELECTRIFICATION WERE AMENDED TO
JUST SAY THE PROJECT WILL HAVE
NO NATURAL GAS CONNECTION
PERIOD LIKE I RECOGNIZE I
UNDERSTAND THE CONNECTION TO
THE GRID.
I'M JUST SAYING THAT THAT IS
LIKE THAT'S WHAT MAKES FEEL
SUPER COMFORTABLE WITH US.
YEAH.
I MEAN THAT TO INCLUDE THE
EMERGENCY BACKUP AS WELL.
EMERGENCY BACKUP IN PART
I MEAN THAT TO INCLUDE THE
BECAUSE OF THIS IDEA LIKE ONCE
EMERGENCY BACKUP IN PART
IT'S CONNECTED WHEN WHEN IT'S
BECAUSE OF THIS IDEA LIKE ONCE
RELIANT NOW ON THIS EMERGENCY
IT'S CONNECTED WHEN WHEN IT'S
BACKUP IN THE FUTURE IT'S GOING
RELIANT NOW ON THIS EMERGENCY
TO MAKE IT REALLY HARD TO EVER
BACKUP IN THE FUTURE IT'S GOING
DISCONTINUE NATURAL GAS AS LONG
TO MAKE IT REALLY HARD TO EVER
AS YOU HAVE PEOPLE THERE SO
DISCONTINUE NATURAL GAS AS LONG
THAT IF THEY HAVE ELEVATORS AND
AS YOU HAVE PEOPLE THERE SO
THINGS BUT THERE ARE OTHER WAYS
THAT IF THEY HAVE ELEVATORS AND
TO GET AT THAT FROM PROPANE
THINGS BUT THERE ARE OTHER WAYS
LIKE THIS MY UNDERSTANDING BUT
TO GET AT THAT FROM PROPANE
I'M I RECOGNIZE I'M IN THE
LIKE THIS MY UNDERSTANDING BUT
MINORITY.
I'M I RECOGNIZE I'M IN THE
I'M JUST SAYING YEAH, ARE YOU
MINORITY.
MAKING A FORMAL MOTION IF
I'M JUST SAYING YEAH, ARE YOU
ANYBODY WANTS TO SECOND IT, I
MAKING A FORMAL MOTION IF
WILL MAKE THAT MOTION WE BUT I
ANYBODY WANTS TO SECOND IT, I
DO NOT FEEL OBLIGATED OTHER
WILL MAKE THAT MOTION WE BUT I
PEOPLE TO SECOND IT.
DO NOT FEEL OBLIGATED OTHER
DO I HAVE A SECOND?
PEOPLE TO SECOND IT.
OK, WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE TO
DO I HAVE A SECOND?
MOVE ON.
OK, WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE TO
MR. MOORE, THIS IS ANOTHER
MOVE ON.
QUESTION FOR YOU SO THE AGAIN
MR. MOORE, THIS IS ANOTHER
THE POINT THAT I JUST WANT TO
QUESTION FOR YOU SO THE AGAIN
MAKE SURE TO CLARIFY MY HEAD IS
THE POINT THAT I JUST WANT TO
THE JUST TRYING TO SUBVERT ANY
MAKE SURE TO CLARIFY MY HEAD IS
OTHER KINDS OF REGULATIONS IN
THE JUST TRYING TO SUBVERT ANY
OTHER DISTRICTS THAT THIS COULD
OTHER KINDS OF REGULATIONS IN
BE ACCOMPLISHED THEN.
OTHER DISTRICTS THAT THIS COULD
SO THE THIRTY FEET STEP BACK
BE ACCOMPLISHED THEN.
FROM RESIDENTIAL IS WHAT WOULD
SO THE THIRTY FEET STEP BACK
FUNDAMENTALLY CHANGE IS
FROM RESIDENTIAL IS WHAT WOULD
REQUIRED IN D ONE FOR EXAMPLE.
FUNDAMENTALLY CHANGE IS
THAT'S WHAT WOULD FUNDAMENTALLY
REQUIRED IN D ONE FOR EXAMPLE.
CHANGE THIS TYPE OF A BUILDING
THAT'S WHAT WOULD FUNDAMENTALLY
FOOTPRINT COULD NOT BE
CHANGE THIS TYPE OF A BUILDING
ACCOMPLISHED D ONE THIS IS
FOOTPRINT COULD NOT BE
CORRECT.
ACCOMPLISHED D ONE THIS IS
OK, DO YOU HAVE ANY OTHER KIND
CORRECT.
OF COMMENTS AS FAR AS JUST
OK, DO YOU HAVE ANY OTHER KIND
TRYING TO MAKE SURE THAT I HAVE
OF COMMENTS AS FAR AS JUST
A VERY CLEAR UNDERSTANDING
TRYING TO MAKE SURE THAT I HAVE
OF WIKIPEDIAS?
A VERY CLEAR UNDERSTANDING
YOU KNOW I MEAN OBVIOUSLY
OF WIKIPEDIAS?
THAT'S WE'VE BEEN DISCUSSING IT
YOU KNOW I MEAN OBVIOUSLY
ALL NIGHT BUT JUST WITH RESPECT
THAT'S WE'VE BEEN DISCUSSING IT
TO HEIGHTENED SETBACK.
ALL NIGHT BUT JUST WITH RESPECT
YEAH, YOU MAY REMEMBER THE DAYS
TO HEIGHTENED SETBACK.
WHEN WE HAD A PLAN PROJECT
YEAH, YOU MAY REMEMBER THE DAYS
OPTION AND THAT TALKED ABOUT
WHEN WE HAD A PLAN PROJECT
THE FLEXIBILITY THAT WE'RE
OPTION AND THAT TALKED ABOUT
TALKING ABOUT NOW WHICH WAS
THE FLEXIBILITY THAT WE'RE
TAKING PLACE ONLY BUT IT WASN'T
TALKING ABOUT NOW WHICH WAS
TALKING ABOUT TRYING TO GET
TAKING PLACE ONLY BUT IT WASN'T
AWAY WITH LESS UNWANTED
TALKING ABOUT TRYING TO GET
ATTENTION OR WHATEVER.
AWAY WITH LESS UNWANTED
IT WAS JUST SAYING YOU HAVE THE
ATTENTION OR WHATEVER.
FLEXIBLE IN THE IN THIS CASE
IT WAS JUST SAYING YOU HAVE THE
OUR FLEXIBILITY ALLOWS US TO
FLEXIBLE IN THE IN THIS CASE
CREATE A BETTER SPACE AT THE
OUR FLEXIBILITY ALLOWS US TO
PUBLIC SIDE OF THE PROJECT THE
CREATE A BETTER SPACE AT THE
STREETSCAPE BY TRUCK GREENERY
PUBLIC SIDE OF THE PROJECT THE
AND FRONT PORCHES AND TOWNHOUSE
STREETSCAPE BY TRUCK GREENERY
UNITS.
AND FRONT PORCHES AND TOWNHOUSE
SO YOU WOULDN'T HAVE IF THAT
UNITS.
BUILDING HAD TO BE PUSHED UP TO
SO YOU WOULDN'T HAVE IF THAT
A ZERO SETBACK IN ORDER TO GET
BUILDING HAD TO BE PUSHED UP TO
THE BUILDING WITH IN BETWEEN
A ZERO SETBACK IN ORDER TO GET
THAT PROPERTY IN THE REAR STEP
THE BUILDING WITH IN BETWEEN
BACK.
THAT PROPERTY IN THE REAR STEP
SO YOU NOW SCENARIO WOULD YOU
BACK.
LOSE ALL OF THE BENEFIT OF THE
SO YOU NOW SCENARIO WOULD YOU
PEDESTRIAN ENHANCED STREETSCAPE
LOSE ALL OF THE BENEFIT OF THE
SIDE OF THE BUILDING IF YOU IF
PEDESTRIAN ENHANCED STREETSCAPE
YOU LOOK THE SHAPE OF THE
SIDE OF THE BUILDING IF YOU IF
BUILDING RATHER THAN JUST BEING
YOU LOOK THE SHAPE OF THE
UP FOR LACK OF ANOTHER WORD
BUILDING RATHER THAN JUST BEING
UNIMAGINATIVE RECTANGLE WE HAVE
UP FOR LACK OF ANOTHER WORD
LOTS OF FENESTRATION IN DENSE
UNIMAGINATIVE RECTANGLE WE HAVE
AND OUT TO GIVE THE BUILDING A
LOTS OF FENESTRATION IN DENSE
MUCH MORE VISUALLY APPEALING
AND OUT TO GIVE THE BUILDING A
BLOCK THAT YEAH IT'S THE USE
MUCH MORE VISUALLY APPEALING
OF DAPS WITHIN THE BUILDING
BLOCK THAT YEAH IT'S THE USE
FRONTAGE SO MAKES SENSE.
OF DAPS WITHIN THE BUILDING
THANK YOU.
FRONTAGE SO MAKES SENSE.
OK IT IS TEN FORTY FIVE RIGHT
THANK YOU.
NOW DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER
OK IT IS TEN FORTY FIVE RIGHT
COMMENTS QUESTIONS THOUGHTS OK
NOW DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER
ARE WE READY FOR A VOTE ON THIS
COMMENTS QUESTIONS THOUGHTS OK
PARTICULAR MOTION.
ARE WE READY FOR A VOTE ON THIS
I'M LOOKING AT OK LET'S GO TO
PARTICULAR MOTION.
ROLL CALL VOTE ON THE MOTION AS
I'M LOOKING AT OK LET'S GO TO
AMENDED I'M GOING TO READ THE
ROLL CALL VOTE ON THE MOTION AS
MOTION REAL QUICK AND I WERE
AMENDED I'M GOING TO READ THE
PLANNING A CITY PLANNING
MOTION REAL QUICK AND I WERE
COMMISSION RECOMMENDS THAT THE
PLANNING A CITY PLANNING
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
COMMISSION RECOMMENDS THAT THE
THE SEVEN ONE ONE CHURCH STREET
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
PLAN UNIT DEVELOPMENT ZONING
THE SEVEN ONE ONE CHURCH STREET
DISTRICT AND SUPPLEMENTAL
PLAN UNIT DEVELOPMENT ZONING
REGULATIONS AS AMENDED SUBJECT
DISTRICT AND SUPPLEMENTAL
TO THE NECESSARY REVISIONS AS
REGULATIONS AS AMENDED SUBJECT
DIRECTED BY THE CITY PLANNING
TO THE NECESSARY REVISIONS AS
COMMISSION AND THEN THE SECOND
DIRECTED BY THE CITY PLANNING
MOTION BEING THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COMMISSION AND THEN THE SECOND
PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDS
MOTION BEING THE ANN ARBOR CITY
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDS
APPROVE THE SEVEN ONE ONE
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
CHURCH ST. PATTY'S SITE PLAN
APPROVE THE SEVEN ONE ONE
AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
CHURCH ST. PATTY'S SITE PLAN
SUBJECT TO ADDRESSING
AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
OUTSTANDING REVIEW COMMENTS.
SUBJECT TO ADDRESSING
THE THREE AMENDMENTS ARE
OUTSTANDING REVIEW COMMENTS.
CURRENTLY WITHIN.
THE THREE AMENDMENTS ARE
THIS PROPOSAL IS REMOVING THE
CURRENTLY WITHIN.
WORK FORCE HOUSING REQUIREMENT
THIS PROPOSAL IS REMOVING THE
INCREASE SEEING THE AFFORDABLE
WORK FORCE HOUSING REQUIREMENT
HOUSING PERCENTAGE FROM 15 TO
INCREASE SEEING THE AFFORDABLE
17 PERCENT AND THEN THE LAST
HOUSING PERCENTAGE FROM 15 TO
ONE PLEASE RUN BY SOMEBODY
17 PERCENT AND THEN THE LAST
DOUBLE DOING AND THEN THE
ONE PLEASE RUN BY SOMEBODY
BICYCLE PARKING TO BICYCLE
DOUBLE DOING AND THEN THE
PARKING
SPOTS PER UNIT.
THANK YOU.
UP.
ALL RIGHT.
SO LET'S MOVE ON TO ROLL CALL
VOTE OK ON THE TWO MOTIONS AS
AMENDED COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT
BE NO COMMISSIONER MILLS NO
COMMISSIONER CLERK YES COUNCIL
NO DISH NO COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT NO
COMMISSIONER
WISCH YES.
AND COMMISSIONER LEE
ON SECOND
JUST TRYING TO GATHER MY
THOUGHTS SPIN A LONG DISCUSSION
SO
I GUESS IT DOESN'T REALLY
MATTER BUT IT MATTERS TO ME.
YEAH YEAH.
MY CONCERN JUST BEING THE THIS
IS THE RIGHT APPLICATION
OF PUDI NO
THAT MOTION FAILS.
IT WILL BE ADVANCED TO CITY
COUNCIL FOR CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU.
WHAT DO YOU GUYS WANT TO POWER
THROUGH THIS.
WHERE WOULD YOU LIKE TO TAKE A
LOOK?
CAN WE TAKE A FIVE MINUTE BREAK
?
WE HAVE PUBLIC COMMENT AND THEN
WE'RE ON TO A GERMAN ONE.
YES, YES, YES.
THAT'S FINE.
OK, THANK YOU.
YEAH OK I COULD USE A BREAK AND
JUST FOR WATER
OK MOVING ON TO
OTHER BUSINESS AS THERE'S NONE
WE ARE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
SECTION ELEVEN PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP THE
THREE MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION THE REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
HAND RAISED HAND FEATURE IF YOU
INCLUDE THE UPLINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER MEANING ID
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO.
SEX CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
CALLERS HAVE RAISED HER HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND NOISES
SO WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR
EITHER METHOD OF PARTICIPATION
.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS CLEARLY AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
THERE IS NOBODY HERE EXCEPT US
.
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY
THERE ARE TWO HANDS
RAISED.
ADAM GOODMAN, YOU HAVE
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION GOOD FROM
WORK TOGETHER THE THERE IS THIS
RESULT AS YOU MIGHT EXPECT THIS
MEETING IS VERY CRITICAL.
WHAT
APPROACH HERE BY NOW WE
WILL HAVE HAD A CHANCE TO LOOK
AT THE EIGHTY PAGE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT BEFORE I SAID STAFF
IS RELEASED AT THE END OF THE
SUMMER A VERY, VERY IMPORTANT
DOCUMENT ESPECIALLY FOR LOOKING
AT THE PLANNING PROCESS IN THE
CITY WORKS ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT IT IDENTIFIES AS A MAJOR
ISSUE FOR THE CITY IS
PROTECTING OUR TAX BASE FROM
CAPTURE BY THE UNIVERSITY.
NOW I MEAN THIS IS BECAUSE THE
UNIVERSITY EXPANDING IS NOT
NECESSARILY A BAD THING FOR THE
CITY BUT IT IS
A SERIOUS THREAT
TO THE CITY BUDGET AND THE WAY
TO MAKE TO YOU TONIGHT IS THAT
WE'RE TALKING IT IS SANDWICHED
BETWEEN TWO PROPERTIES
UNIVERSITY ALREADY SO FAR THIS
DEVELOPMENT IS ULTIMATELY NOT
APPROVED BY COUNCIL OR
OTHERWISE FAILS BECAUSE OF ON
REQUIREMENTS THAT ARE TOO
ONEROUS TO ACTUALLY CANCEL OUT.
DON'T BE SURPRISED IF THE
UNIVERSITY BUYS THE SITE AND IT
COMES OFF OUR TAX ROLLS AND
WHEN PROPERTY IS NOT ZONED
APPROPRIATELY FOR ITS HIGHEST
AND BEST USE THAT IDENTITY AT A
DISADVANTAGE COMPARED TO THE
UNIVERSITY BECAUSE THE
UNIVERSITY DOES NOT HAVE TO
FOLLOW ZENECA THEY BUILD THIS
BUILDING AND YOU WOULD HAVE
NOTHING TO SAY ABOUT IT BUT WE
CAN GET THE PROPERTY TAX
REVENUE FROM IT SO I WILL KEEP
THINGS LIKE THIS IN MIND SO
THIS IS A CRITICAL TOOL TO
PRESERVE THE CITY OF TAX PEACE
AND BALANCE OUR BUDGET IN
NICKEL AND DIMING OF THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING CONTRIBUTION
IS SOMETHING THAT COULD REALLY
BE SHOOTING OURSELVES IN THE
FOOT.
I DID NOT WONDER JUST FOR THE
RECORD LOOKING AT OUR WAIT LIST
WHICH IS THE OCD OR WAIT LIST
FOR WITHIN A DEVELOPMENT IT
CITY DOES HAVE SOME UNITS AT 80
PERCENT AND SO I'M NOT SURE
WHERE THIS IDEA THAT THE CITY
OF COUNTY OR UNICOR WANTS TO DO
THIS THAT'S ALL THEY DO.
I THINK THAT CONVERTING TO BLUE
IS A GOOD IDEA FOR ALL THE
REASONS THAT COMMISSIONER
WRIGHT MENTIONED EARLIER.
IT'S ALL FOR TONIGHT.
THANK YOU, MR. CHAIRMAN.
OUR FINAL COLOR IS PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN FIVE THREE FOUR HAVE
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION
OVER WILL NOT KEEP
YOU MORE THAN I TO BE A VERY
INTERESTING DISCUSSION AS WE
KNOW FOR THE PAST FOUR
QUARTERBACKING INCLUDING USING
THE WHERE AND THAT'S A GREAT
WAY TO GET OUR MONEY ASSUMING
YOU DON'T HAVE A LOT.
BUT I HAVE WORKED WITH ATTORNEY
AND I FEEL PROBABLY LIKE 100
PERCENT STRONG LOCAL LAW NINE
AND A HALF AND I FEEL STRONG AS
AN ATTORNEY OR CORPORATE OFFICE
DEALING WELL IN I DON'T WANT TO
SUE AND CHALLENGE THAT BUT THAT
DOESN'T MEAN THAT IT WASN'T
ILLEGAL BECAUSE WERE
UNCONDITIONAL AND THAT'S THE
QUESTION I THINK YOU SHOULD
DISCUSS FURTHER LEGAL BEFORE
GOING ON POWERFUL ATTORNEY OR
EVEN ATTORNEY.
I AM NOT AT CAN YOU RIDE IN
THAT HORSE AS MUCH A AFFORDABLE
HOUSING MONEY?
AS MUCH AS I APPRECIATE PEOPLE
HAVING MONEY WHICH SOME OF YOU
DID HERE ON I THINK IT'S A
CONVERSATION AND I APPRECIATE
THE CONNECTIONS VERY
CONVERSATIONAL THAT QUICK BUT
CONVERSATIONS SHOULD WE HAVE A
LANGUAGE THAT IS YOU JUST THE
AMOUNT MONEY TO GET MORE OR
LESS IN TERMS OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING TO DO THAT WOULD BE
FORTHCOMING ON THIS ONE.
I AM GOING TO HELP THEM.
I AM AWARE THAT THIS IS AN
ISSUE THAT ONLY THE WALL STREET
PROJECT IF YOU WORK WITH THAT I
THINK YOU ARE I APPRECIATE THE
CONVERSATION YOU ALL HAVE WAS
VERY INFORMATIVE AND AGAIN THE
CONVERSATION I APPRECIATE THAT
A FORMER DEVELOPER MYSELF AND I
THANK YOU ALL FOR THAT.
THERE IS ONE MORE HAND RAISED.
ERIC, YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
OR.
OH, I I JUST WANT TO SAY I'M
DISAPPOINTED THIS IS THE KIND
OF REVIEW THAT I EXPECTING
DEVELOPERS TO FIX IS INABILITY
TO DELIVER ELECTRICITY TO OUR
HOUSES.
I MY HOUSE I JUST PUT IN I MEAN
I'M
IN A VERY EFFICIENT HOUSE
AND I WAS ONLY 11 DAYS
ELECTRICITY LAST YEAR SO I JUST
PUT IN A NATURAL GAS GENERATOR
IN MY HOUSE AND THIS HAS
ALLOWED ME TO STICK I WANT TO
KEEP APPLIANCES RUNNING, GREAT
POWER OUTAGES AND I THINK IT'S
JUST UNFORTUNATE THAT THE
EXPECTED DEVELOPER OUT OF THE
BUILDING TO FIX DTD ISSUES ARE
CALLING FOR BACKUP GENERATORS
WHEN WAS ALREADY ON A PERSONAL
ELEVATORS GOING OUT OF SERVICE
AND OUR STUDENTS BEING LEFT IN
THE COLD WHEN YOU CAN DO THEIR
JOBS JUST FOR US TO KIND
OF MADE IT THE RESPONSIBILITY
OF THE DEVELOPER OF US AND THEY
ALSO DID ON THAT SECOND DAY
BLOCKING YOUR BACK TO THE
DEVELOPERS AND HAVING TO CHARGE
FOUR THOUSAND DOLLARS A MONTH
PER UNIT TO MAKE THIS CASE.
WELL, I THINK IF THIS STILL
CANCELS OUT THEY'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO KEEP IN ONTARIO.
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO CHARGE
OR RENT.
THIS IS NOT A WIN BECAUSE
POTENTIALLY MADE DENSITY NOT
FEASIBLE HERE WILL BE A SHAME
IF WE HAVE TO WALK AWAY END UP
WALKING AWAY FROM SIX POINT
THREE MILLION DOLLARS OR
HOWEVER MUCH IT ENDS UP BEING
FOR THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
FUND.
WE'RE DOING A DISSERVICE THE
WORKING CLASSES THAT ARE COMING
INTO THE CITY OF WOULD LOVE TO
LIVE HERE.
THE PREVIOUS CALLER REFERRED TO
THE THE RECENT ECONOMIC REPORT
I READ PARTS OF IT AS WELL AND
THERE'S A HUGE DEMAND FOR
PEOPLE WHO WANT TO LIVE
SOMETHING LIKE 50 PERCENT THE
BECAUSE OF A LACK OF THE
ABILITY TO PAY RENT HERE.
SO YEAH, THIS COULD PUT A HUGE
DENT.
I STILL HOPE THE CITY COUNCIL
WILL FIND A WAY TO IMPROVE IT
DESPITE RECOMMENDING AGAINST IT
BECAUSE THIS IS GOOD FOR OUR
PLANET.
THIS IS GOOD FOR OUR CITY.
THIS IS GOOD FOR THE WORKING
CLASSES AND I JUST THOUGHT I
JUST WISH YOU GUYS I JUST WISH
YOU GUYS WENT THE OTHER WAY AND
KIND CITED ON THE ON THE SIDE
OF SUSTAINABILITY.
SO NEXT TIME.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
GIVE IT ANOTHER SECOND.
SEE NO OTHER CALLERS WE'RE
GOING CLOSE PUBLIC COMMENTS.
WE'RE GOING TO GO ON TO SECTION
12 COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESSES OR ANY COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS.
THANK YOU TO EVERYBODY FOR
PASSING THROUGH THE DISCUSSION
AND ESPECIALLY TO MR. LEO FOR
BEING SUCH A THOROUGH REVIEW.
SO NO OTHER COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS.
I'M GOING TO MOVE ON TO SECTION
13 ADJOURNMENT MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITE'S SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER MILLS.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I WE ARE
ADJOURNED.
THANK YOU